
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5062 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.5062

                     One Hundred Thirteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and fourteen


                                 An Act


 
 To amend the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 to specify that 
privilege and confidentiality are maintained when information is shared 
    by certain nondepository covered persons with Federal and State 
              financial regulators, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Examination and Supervisory 
Privilege Parity Act of 2014''.
SEC. 2. PRIVILEGE OF INFORMATION SHARED BY CERTAIN NONDEPOSITORY 
COVERED PERSONS.
    Section 1024(b)(3) of the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 
(12 U.S.C. 5514(b)(3)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``regulators and the State bank regulatory 
    authorities'' and inserting ``regulators, the State bank regulatory 
    authorities, and the State agencies that licence, supervise, or 
    examine the offering of consumer financial products or services''; 
    and
        (2) by adding at the end the following: ``The sharing of 
    information with such regulators, authorities, and agencies shall 
    not be construed as waiving, destroying, or otherwise affecting any 
    privilege or confidentiality such person may claim with respect to 
    such information under Federal or State law as to any person or 
    entity other than such Bureau, agency, supervisor, or authority.''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
