
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 567 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 567

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                           May 8, 2014.
    Resolved,

SECTION 1. ESTABLISHMENT.

    There is hereby established the Select Committee on the Events Surrounding 
the 2012 Terrorist Attack in Benghazi (hereinafter referred to as the ``Select 
Committee'').

SEC. 2. COMPOSITION.

    (a) The Speaker shall appoint 12 Members to the Select Committee, five of 
whom shall be appointed after consultation with the minority leader.
    (b) The Speaker shall designate one Member to serve as chair of the Select 
Committee.
    (c) Any vacancy in the Select Committee shall be filled in the same manner 
as the original appointment.

SEC. 3. INVESTIGATION AND REPORT ON THE EVENTS SURROUNDING THE 2012 TERRORIST 
              ATTACK IN BENGHAZI.

    (a) The Select Committee is authorized and directed to conduct a full and 
complete investigation and study and issue a final report of its findings to the 
House regarding--
            (1) all policies, decisions, and activities that contributed to the 
        attacks on United States facilities in Benghazi, Libya, on September 11, 
        2012, as well as those that affected the ability of the United States to 
        prepare for the attacks;
            (2) all policies, decisions, and activities to respond to and repel 
        the attacks on United States facilities in Benghazi, Libya, on September 
        11, 2012, including efforts to rescue United States personnel;
            (3) internal and public executive branch communications about the 
        attacks on United States facilities in Benghazi, Libya, on September 11, 
        2012;
            (4) accountability for policies and decisions related to the 
        security of facilities in Benghazi, Libya, and the response to the 
        attacks, including individuals and entities responsible for those 
        policies and decisions;
            (5) executive branch authorities' efforts to identify and bring to 
        justice the perpetrators of the attacks on U.S. facilities in Benghazi, 
        Libya, on September 11, 2012;
            (6) executive branch activities and efforts to comply with 
        Congressional inquiries into the attacks on United States facilities in 
        Benghazi, Libya, on September 11, 2012;
            (7) recommendations for improving executive branch cooperation and 
        compliance with congressional oversight and investigations;
            (8) information related to lessons learned from the attacks and 
        executive branch activities and efforts to protect United States 
        facilities and personnel abroad; and
            (9) any other relevant issues relating to the attacks, the response 
        to the attacks, or the investigation by the House of Representatives 
        into the attacks.
    (b) In addition to any final report addressing the matters in subsection 
(a), the Select Committee may issue such interim reports as it deems necessary.
    (c) Any report issued by the Select Committee may contain a classified 
annex.

SEC. 4. PROCEDURE.

    (a) Notwithstanding clause 3(m) of rule X of the Rules of the House of 
Representatives, the Select Committee is authorized to study the sources and 
methods of entities described in clause 11(b)(1)(A) of rule X insofar as such 
study is related to the matters described in section 3.
    (b) Clause 11(b)(4), clause 11(e), and the first sentence of clause 11(f) of 
rule X of the Rules of the House of Representatives shall apply to the Select 
Committee.
    (c) Rule XI of the Rules of the House of Representatives shall apply to the 
Select Committee except as follows:
            (1) Clause 2(a) of rule XI shall not apply to the Select Committee.
            (2) Clause 2(g)(2)(D) of rule XI shall apply to the Select Committee 
        in the same manner as it applies to the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence.
            (3) Pursuant to clause 2(h) of rule XI, two Members of the Select 
        Committee shall constitute a quorum for taking testimony or receiving 
        evidence and one-third of the Members of the Select Committee shall 
        constitute a quorum for taking any action other than one for which the 
        presence of a majority of the Select Committee is required.
            (4) The chair of the Select Committee may authorize and issue 
        subpoenas pursuant to clause 2(m) of rule XI in the investigation and 
        study conducted pursuant to section 3 of this resolution, including for 
        the purpose of taking depositions.
            (5)(A) The chair of the Select Committee, upon consultation with the 
        ranking minority member, may order the taking of depositions, under oath 
        and pursuant to notice or subpoena, by a Member of the Select Committee 
        or a counsel of the Select Committee.
            (B) Depositions taken under the authority prescribed in this 
        paragraph shall be governed by the procedures submitted by the chair of 
        the Committee on Rules for printing in the Congressional Record.
            (6) The chair of the Select Committee may, after consultation with 
        the ranking minority member, recognize--
                    (A) Members of the Select Committee to question a witness 
                for periods longer than five minutes as though pursuant to 
                clause 2(j)(2)(B) of rule XI; and
                    (B) staff of the Select Committee to question a witness as 
                though pursuant to clause 2(j)(2)(C) of rule XI.

SEC. 5. RECORDS; STAFF; FUNDING.

    (a) Any committee of the House of Representatives having custody of records 
in any form relating to the matters described in section 3 shall transfer such 
records to the Select Committee within 14 days of the adoption of this 
resolution. Such records shall become the records of the Select Committee.
    (b)(1)(A) To the greatest extent practicable, the Select Committee shall 
utilize the services of staff of employing entities of the House. At the request 
of the chair of the Select Committee in consultation with the ranking minority 
member, staff of employing entities of the House or a joint committee may be 
detailed to the Select Committee without reimbursement to carry out this 
resolution and shall be deemed to be staff of the Select Committee.
    (B) Section 202(i) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 
4301(i)) shall apply with respect to the Select Committee in the same manner as 
such section applies with respect to a standing committee of the House of 
Representatives.
    (2) The chair of the Select Committee, upon consultation with the ranking 
minority member, may employ and fix the compensation of such staff as the chair 
considers necessary to carry out this resolution.
    (c) There shall be paid out of the applicable accounts of the House of 
Representatives such sums as may be necessary for the expenses of the Select 
Committee. Such payments shall be made on vouchers signed by the chair of the 
Select Committee and approved in the manner directed by the Committee on House 
Administration. Amounts made available under this subsection shall be expended 
in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Committee on House 
Administration.

SEC. 6. DISSOLUTION AND DISPOSITION OF RECORDS.

    (a) The Select Committee shall cease to exist 30 days after filing the final 
report required under section 3.
    (b) Upon dissolution of the Select Committee, the records of the Select 
Committee shall become the records of such committee or committees designated by 
the Speaker.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
