
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4869 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4869

To provide for Department of Energy fundamental science, basic research 
        activities, and applied energy research and development.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             June 13, 2014

 Mrs. Lummis (for herself, Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. 
  Hall, Mr. Cramer, and Mr. Stockman) introduced the following bill; 
 which was referred to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide for Department of Energy fundamental science, basic research 
        activities, and applied energy research and development.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Department of 
Energy Research and Development Act of 2014''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
                         TITLE I--EINSTEIN ACT

Sec. 101. Short title.
                     Subtitle A--Office of Science

Sec. 111. Mission.
Sec. 112. Basic energy sciences.
Sec. 113. Advanced scientific computing research.
Sec. 114. High energy physics.
Sec. 115. Biological and environmental research.
Sec. 116. Fusion energy.
Sec. 117. Nuclear physics.
Sec. 118. Science laboratories infrastructure program.
Sec. 119. Authorization of appropriations.
                       Subtitle B--Miscellaneous

Sec. 121. Transparency.
Sec. 122. National Energy Technology Laboratory.
Sec. 123. Savings clause.
Sec. 124. Under Secretary for Science and Energy.
Sec. 125. National Laboratories operations and performance management.
Sec. 126. Sense of Congress on an integrated strategy for National 
                            Laboratories in the 21st century.
Sec. 127. Agreements for Commercializing Technology pilot program.
Sec. 128. Technology transfer.
Sec. 129. Inclusion of early-stage technology demonstration in 
                            authorized technology transfer activities.
Sec. 130. Funding competitiveness for institutions of higher education 
                            and other nonprofit institutions.
Sec. 131. Report by Government Accountability Office.
Sec. 132. Definitions.
                          TITLE II--ONE FUTURE

Sec. 201. Short title.
           Subtitle A--Crosscutting Research and Development

Sec. 211. Crosscutting research and development.
Sec. 212. Strategic research portfolio analysis and coordination plan.
Sec. 213. Strategy for facilities and infrastructure.
Sec. 214. Distributed energy and electric energy systems.
Sec. 215. Distributed energy technology coordinating consortia.
Sec. 216. Electric transmission and distribution research and 
                            development.
          Subtitle B--Nuclear Energy Research and Development

Sec. 221. Objectives.
Sec. 222. Program objectives study.
Sec. 223. Nuclear energy research and development programs.
Sec. 224. Small modular reactor program.
Sec. 225. Conventional improvements to nuclear power plants.
Sec. 226. Fuel cycle research and development.
Sec. 227. Nuclear energy enabling technologies program.
Sec. 228. Technical standards collaboration.
Sec. 229. Evaluation of long-term operating needs.
Sec. 230. Available facilities database.
Sec. 231. Nuclear waste disposal.
    Subtitle C--Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Research and 
                              Development

Sec. 241. Energy efficiency.
Sec. 242. Next Generation Lighting Initiative.
Sec. 243. Building standards.
Sec. 244. Secondary electric vehicle battery use program.
Sec. 245. Energy Efficiency Science Initiative.
Sec. 246. Advanced Energy Technology Transfer Centers.
Sec. 247. Renewable energy.
Sec. 248. Bioenergy program.
Sec. 249. Concentrating solar power research program.
Sec. 250. Renewable energy in public buildings.
           Subtitle D--Fossil Energy Research and Development

Sec. 261. Fossil energy.
Sec. 262. Pioneering Energy Research.
Sec. 263. Research, development, demonstration, and commercial 
                            application programs.
Sec. 264. High efficiency gas turbines research and development.
          Subtitle E--Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy

Sec. 281. ARPA-E amendments.
                       Subtitle F--Miscellaneous

Sec. 291. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 292. Definitions.

                         TITLE I--EINSTEIN ACT

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Enabling Innovation for Science, 
Technology, and Energy in America Act of 2014'' or the ``EINSTEIN 
Act''.

                     Subtitle A--Office of Science

SEC. 111. MISSION.

    Section 209 of the Department of Energy Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 
7139) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Mission.--The mission of the Office of Science shall be the 
delivery of scientific discoveries, capabilities, and major scientific 
tools to transform the understanding of nature and to advance the 
energy, economic, and national security of the United States. In 
support of this mission, the Director shall carry out programs on basic 
energy sciences, advanced scientific computing research, high energy 
physics, biological and environmental research, fusion energy sciences, 
and nuclear physics, including as provided under subtitle A of the 
Enabling Innovation for Science, Technology, and Energy in America Act 
of 2014, through activities focused on--
            ``(1) fundamental scientific discoveries through the study 
        of matter and energy;
            ``(2) science for national need, including--
                    ``(A) advancing an agenda for American energy 
                independence through research on energy production, 
                storage, transmission, efficiency, and use; and
                    ``(B) advancing our understanding of the Earth's 
                climate through research in atmospheric and 
                environmental sciences; and
            ``(3) National Scientific User Facilities to deliver the 
        21st century tools of science, engineering, and technology and 
        provide the Nation's researchers with the most advanced tools 
        of modern science including accelerators, colliders, 
        supercomputers, light sources and neutron sources, and 
        facilities for studying materials science.
    ``(d) Coordination With Other Department of Energy Programs.--The 
Under Secretary for Science and Energy shall ensure the coordination of 
Office of Science activities and programs with other activities of the 
Department.''.

SEC. 112. BASIC ENERGY SCIENCES.

    (a) Program.--The Director shall carry out a program in basic 
energy sciences, including materials sciences and engineering, chemical 
sciences, physical biosciences, and geosciences, for the purpose of 
providing the scientific foundations for new energy technologies.
    (b) Mission.--The mission of the program described in subsection 
(a) shall be to support fundamental research to understand, predict, 
and ultimately control matter and energy at the electronic, atomic, and 
molecular levels in order to provide the foundations for new energy 
technologies and to support Department missions in energy, environment, 
and national security.
    (c) Basic Energy Sciences User Facilities.--The Director shall 
carry out a subprogram for the development, construction, operation, 
and maintenance of national user facilities to support the program 
under this section. As practicable, these facilities shall serve the 
needs of the Department, industry, the academic community, and other 
relevant entities to create and examine new materials and chemical 
processes for the purposes of advancing new energy technologies and 
improving the competitiveness of the United States. These facilities 
shall include--
            (1) x-ray light sources;
            (2) neutron sources;
            (3) nanoscale science research centers; and
            (4) other facilities the Director considers appropriate, 
        consistent with section 209 of the Department of Energy 
        Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7139).
    (d) Light Source Leadership Initiative.--
            (1) Establishment.--In support of the subprogram authorized 
        in subsection (c), the Director shall establish an initiative 
        to sustain and advance global leadership of light source user 
        facilities.
            (2) Leadership strategy.--Not later than 9 months after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, and biennially thereafter, the 
        Director shall prepare, in consultation with relevant 
        stakeholders, and submit to the Committee on Science, Space, 
        and Technology of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a light 
        source leadership strategy that--
                    (A) identifies, prioritizes, and describes plans 
                for the development, construction, and operation of 
                light sources over the next decade;
                    (B) describes plans for optimizing management and 
                use of existing light source facilities; and
                    (C) assesses the international outlook for light 
                source user facilities and describes plans for United 
                States cooperation in such projects.
            (3) Advisory committee feedback and recommendations.--Not 
        later than 45 days after submission of the strategy described 
        in paragraph (2), the Basic Energy Sciences Advisory Committee 
        shall provide the Director, the Committee on Science, Space, 
        and Technology of the House of Representatives, and the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a 
        report of the Advisory Committee's analyses, findings, and 
        recommendations for improving the strategy, including a review 
        of the most recent budget request for the initiative.
            (4) Proposed budget.--The Director shall transmit annually 
        to Congress a proposed budget corresponding to the activities 
        identified in the strategy.
    (e) Accelerator Research and Development.--The Director shall carry 
out research and development on advanced accelerator and storage ring 
technologies relevant to the development of Basic Energy Sciences user 
facilities, in consultation with the Office of Science's High Energy 
Physics and Nuclear Physics programs.
    (f) EPSCoR.--
            (1) Continuation of program.--The Secretary shall continue 
        to carry out the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive 
        Research, established at the Department of Energy under section 
        2203(b)(3) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 
        13503(b)(3)) (in this subsection referred to as ``EPSCoR''), 
        with the objective of expanding the research capabilities of 
        the eligible States to enable them to better address the many 
        energy and energy-related issues that confront their States and 
        the Nation on a daily basis.
            (2) Representation.--Advisory committees, workshops, and 
        review panels are critical tools to help the Department to make 
        sound decisions about how to best spend research and 
        development funds, as well as to identify other opportunities 
        to advance the Department's research priorities. The Secretary 
        shall ensure that the process for nominating members to such 
        advisory committees and review panels considers candidates from 
        a broad range of geographic locations, with an objective of 
        reflecting an expansive geographic distribution of research 
        universities.
            (3) Congressional reports.--The Director shall report to 
        the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate on an annual basis, using the most 
        recent available data, on--
                    (A) the total research funding made available by 
                the Department to each State in the Nation;
                    (B) the total amount of research funding made 
                available, by State, under EPSCoR;
                    (C) the total amount of Department research funding 
                made available to all institutions and entities within 
                EPSCoR States;
                    (D) a breakdown of the EPSCoR funds spent in each 
                subject matter area;
                    (E) the geographic breakdown of members of the 
                Department's research advisory boards; and
                    (F) efforts and accomplishments to more fully 
                integrate the EPSCoR States in major activities and 
                initiatives of the Department.
            (4) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Secretary of Energy for the EPSCoR 
        program for fiscal year 2015, $22,000,000.

SEC. 113. ADVANCED SCIENTIFIC COMPUTING RESEARCH.

    (a) Program.--The Director shall carry out a research, development, 
demonstration, and commercial application program to advance 
computational and networking capabilities to analyze, model, simulate, 
and predict complex phenomena relevant to the development of new energy 
technologies and the competitiveness of the United States.
    (b) Facilities.--The Director, as part of the program described in 
subsection (a), shall develop and maintain world-class computing and 
network facilities for science and deliver critical research in applied 
mathematics, computer science, and advanced networking to support the 
Department's missions.
    (c) Definitions.--Section 2 of the Department of Energy High-End 
Computing Revitalization Act of 2004 (15 U.S.C. 5541) is amended by 
striking paragraphs (1) through (5) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) Co-design.--The term `co-design' means the joint 
        development of application algorithms, models, and codes with 
        computer technology architectures and operating systems to 
        maximize effective use of high-end computing systems.
            ``(2) Department.--The term `Department' means the 
        Department of Energy.
            ``(3) Exascale.--The term `exascale' means computing system 
        performance at or near 10 to the 18th power floating point 
        operations per second.
            ``(4) High-end computing system.--The term `high-end 
        computing system' means a computing system with performance 
        that substantially exceeds that of systems that are commonly 
        available for advanced scientific and engineering applications.
            ``(5) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        `institution of higher education' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001(a)).
            ``(6) Leadership system.--The term `Leadership System' 
        means a high-end computing system that is among the most 
        advanced in the world in terms of performance in solving 
        scientific and engineering problems.
            ``(7) National laboratory.--The term `National Laboratory' 
        means any one of the seventeen laboratories owned by the 
        Department.
            ``(8) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            ``(9) Software technology.--The term `software technology' 
        includes optimal algorithms, programming environments, tools, 
        languages, and operating systems for high-end computing 
        systems.''.
    (d) Department of Energy High-End Computing Research and 
Development Program.--Section 3 of the Department of Energy High-End 
Computing Revitalization Act of 2004 (15 U.S.C. 5542) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``program'' and 
                inserting ``coordinated program across the 
                Department'';
                    (B) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph 
                (1);
                    (C) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
                (2) and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(3) partner with universities, National Laboratories, and 
        industry to ensure the broadest possible application of the 
        technology developed in this program to other challenges in 
        science, engineering, medicine, and industry.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``vector'' and all 
        that follows through ``architectures'' and inserting ``computer 
        technologies that show promise of substantial reductions in 
        power requirements and substantial gains in parallelism of 
        multicore processors, concurrency, memory and storage, 
        bandwidth, and reliability'';
            (3) by striking subsection (b)(3) and inserting the 
        following paragraph:
            ``(3) in concert with architecture development efforts, 
        conduct research in applied mathematics, computer science, and 
        software development, including--
                    ``(A) research on operating systems, programming 
                environments, and languages to support advanced 
                architectures; and
                    ``(B) research on mathematical modeling and 
                computational algorithms that enable simulation and 
                data analysis of large-scale scientific problems and 
                design of engineered systems on advanced 
                architectures;''; and
            (4) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following:
    ``(d) Exascale Computing Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct a 
        coordinated research and development program to develop 
        exascale computing systems to advance the missions of the 
        Department.
            ``(2) Execution.--The Secretary shall, on a competitive, 
        merit-reviewed basis, establish 2 or more National Laboratory-
        industry-university partnerships to conduct integrated 
        research, development, and engineering of multiple exascale 
        architectures, and--
                    ``(A) conduct mission-related co-design activities 
                in developing exascale platforms;
                    ``(B) develop those advancements in hardware and 
                software technology required to fully realize the 
                potential of an exascale production system in 
                addressing Department target applications and solving 
                scientific problems involving predictive modeling and 
                simulation and large-scale data analytics and 
                management; and
                    ``(C) explore the use of exascale computing 
                technologies to advance a broad range of science and 
                engineering.
            ``(3) Administration.--In carrying out this program, the 
        Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) provide, on a competitive, merit-reviewed 
                basis, access for researchers in United States 
                industry, institutions of higher education, National 
                Laboratories, and other Federal agencies to exascale 
                systems, as appropriate; and
                    ``(B) conduct outreach programs to increase the 
                readiness for the use of exascale platforms by domestic 
                industries, including manufacturers.
            ``(4) Reports.--
                    ``(A) Integrated strategy and program management 
                plan.--The Secretary shall submit to Congress, not 
                later than 90 days after the date of enactment of the 
                Enabling Innovation for Science, Technology, and Energy 
                in America Act of 2014, a report outlining an 
                integrated strategy and program management plan, 
                including target dates for prototypical and production 
                exascale platforms, interim milestones to reaching 
                these targets, functional requirements, roles and 
                responsibilities of National Laboratories and industry, 
                acquisition strategy, and estimated resources required, 
                to achieve this exascale system capability. The report 
                shall include the Secretary's plan for Departmental 
                organization to manage and execute the Exascale 
                Computing Program, including definition of the roles 
                and responsibilities within the Department to ensure an 
                integrated program across the Department. The report 
                shall also include a plan for ensuring balance and 
                prioritizing across ASCR subprograms in a flat or slow-
                growth budget environment.
                    ``(B) Status reports.--At the time of the budget 
                submission of the Department for each fiscal year, the 
                Secretary shall submit a report to Congress that 
                describes the status of milestones and costs in 
                achieving the objectives of the exascale computing 
                program.
                    ``(C) Exascale merit report.--At least 18 months 
                prior to the initiation of construction or installation 
                of any exascale-class computing facility, the Secretary 
                shall transmit a plan to the Congress detailing--
                            ``(i) the proposed facility's cost 
                        projections and capabilities to significantly 
                        accelerate the development of new energy 
                        technologies;
                            ``(ii) technical risks and challenges that 
                        must be overcome to achieve successful 
                        completion and operation of the facility; and
                            ``(iii) an independent assessment of the 
                        scientific and technological advances expected 
                        from such a facility relative to those expected 
                        from a comparable investment in expanded 
                        research and applications at terascale-class 
                        and petascale-class computing facilities, 
                        including an evaluation of where investments 
                        should be made in the system software and 
                        algorithms to enable these advances.''.

SEC. 114. HIGH ENERGY PHYSICS.

    (a) Program.--The Director shall carry out a research program on 
the elementary constituents of matter and energy and the nature of 
space and time.
    (b) Underground Science.--
            (1) Purpose.--The Director shall create, preserve, and 
        maintain United States facilities essential to underground 
        scientific research supported by the Department.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and biennially thereafter, the Director 
        shall submit to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
        of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and 
        Natural Resources of the Senate a report on the activities to 
        steward national leadership in underground science, including--
                    (A) methods for coordination between activities 
                carried out under this section and activities carried 
                out under section 117;
                    (B) demonstration of engagement with other relevant 
                Federal agencies, including the National Science 
                Foundation;
                    (C) plans for sustaining and advancing United 
                States leadership in underground science, particularly 
                as they relate to development of scientific user 
                facilities to explore the frontiers of particle physics 
                and science in general; and
                    (D) identification of priorities in the area of 
                underground science, taking into consideration previous 
                Department and National Research Council reports.
            (3) Grants in support of underground science.--The Director 
        shall carry out a competitive program to award grants to 
        scientists and engineers at institutions of higher education, 
        nonprofit institutions, and National Laboratories to conduct 
        research in underground science.
            (4) Transfer of stewardship.--If the Department determines 
        that one or more underground research facilities are no longer 
        required to carry out the program described in this section, 
        the Secretary may designate another appropriate steward of 
        underground research facilities. If such stewardship is 
        transferred, the Secretary shall provide notification to 
        Congress within 30 days.
    (c) Accelerator Research and Development.--The Director shall carry 
out research and development in advanced accelerator concepts and 
technologies, including laser technologies, to reduce the necessary 
scope and cost for the next generation of particle accelerators.

SEC. 115. BIOLOGICAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH.

    (a) Program.--The Director shall carry out a program of research, 
development, and demonstration in the areas of biological systems 
science and climate and environmental science to support the energy and 
environmental missions of the Department.
    (b) Priority Research.--In carrying out this section, the Director 
shall prioritize fundamental research on biological systems and 
genomics science with the greatest potential to enable technological 
solutions for American energy independence.
    (c) Assessment.--Not later than 12 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit a report to 
Congress identifying climate science-related initiatives under this 
section that overlap or duplicate initiatives of other Federal agencies 
and the extent of such overlap or duplication.
    (d) Limitation.--The Director shall not approve new climate 
science-related initiatives to be carried out through the Office of 
Science without making a determination that such work is unique and not 
duplicative of work by other Federal agencies. Not later than 3 months 
after receiving the assessment required under subsection (c), the 
Director shall cease those climate science-related initiatives 
identified in the assessment as overlapping or duplicative, unless the 
Director justifies that such work is critical to achieving American 
energy independence.
    (e) Low Dose Radiation Research Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Director shall carry out a research 
        program on low dose radiation. The purpose of the program is to 
        enhance the scientific understanding of and reduce 
        uncertainties associated with the effects of exposure to low 
        dose radiation in order to inform improved risk management 
        methods.
            (2) Study.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Director shall enter into an 
        agreement with the National Academies to conduct a study 
        assessing the current status and development of a long-term 
        strategy for low dose radiation research. The study shall be 
        conducted in coordination with Federal agencies that perform 
        ionizing radiation effects research and shall leverage the most 
        current studies in this field. Such study shall--
                    (A) identify current scientific challenges for 
                understanding the long-term effects of ionizing 
                radiation;
                    (B) assess the status of current low dose radiation 
                research in the United States and internationally;
                    (C) formulate overall scientific goals for the 
                future of low-dose radiation research in the United 
                States;
                    (D) recommend a long-term strategic and prioritized 
                research agenda to address scientific research goals 
                for overcoming the identified scientific challenges in 
                coordination with other research efforts;
                    (E) define the essential components of a research 
                program that would address this research agenda within 
                the universities and the National Laboratories; and
                    (F) assess the cost-benefit effectiveness of such a 
                program.
            (3) Research plan.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        completion of the study performed under paragraph (2) the 
        Secretary shall deliver to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
        Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a 5-year research 
        plan that responds to the study's findings and recommendations 
        and identifies and prioritizes research needs.
            (4) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``low dose 
        radiation'' means a radiation dose of less than 100 
        millisieverts.
            (5) Prohibition on biomedical research.--Section 977(e) of 
        the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16317(e)) is amended 
        to read as follows:
    ``(e) Prohibition on Biomedical Research.--In carrying out the 
program under this section, the Secretary shall not conduct biomedical 
research.''.

SEC. 116. FUSION ENERGY.

    (a) Program.--The Director shall carry out a fusion energy sciences 
research program to expand the fundamental understanding of plasmas and 
matter at very high temperatures and densities and to build the 
scientific foundation necessary to enable fusion power.
    (b) Plan.--Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Director shall prepare, in consultation with relevant 
stakeholders including experts in fusion science and technology and 
engineering and operations, and submit to the Committee on Science, 
Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a plan to carry out the 
program set forth in subsection (a). The plan shall--
            (1) outline the tasks required to resolve the remaining 
        scientific, engineering, and materials challenges, including a 
        schedule for accomplishing these tasks under various budget 
        scenarios;
            (2) identify priorities for initiation of facility 
        construction and facility decommissioning under various budget 
        scenarios;
            (3) specify how existing domestic experimental capabilities 
        and United States participation in the ITER project contribute 
        to this effort, and what additional capabilities, including 
        facilities for materials, plasma confinement, and fusion 
        technologies and advances in large scale computer simulations 
        may be needed within the United States;
            (4) provide a strategy to develop conceptual designs for 
        building a demonstration power plant including the associated 
        cost and schedule under various budget scenarios, and address 
        considerations with respect to operability, reliability, and 
        maintainability; and
            (5) describe options of involving international partners or 
        collaborators and explain how such partnerships or 
        collaborations might be leveraged to decrease costs or 
        accelerate the schedule while enhancing United States 
        leadership in fusion science and technology.
    (c) Advisory Committee Report and Recommendations.--Not later than 
120 days after submission of the plan required under subsection (b), 
the Department's Fusion Energy Science Advisory Committee shall provide 
the Director, the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the 
House of Representatives, and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate a report of its findings, analyses, and 
recommendations to improve the plan, including a review of the most 
recent budget request.
    (d) ITER Study.--The Comptroller General shall conduct a study to 
identify uncertainties and the outlook regarding on-schedule completion 
of the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor. The study 
shall review, examine, and investigate any management and technical 
challenges, as well as financial risks, associated with the 
International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor. Not later than 6 
months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General 
shall submit a report to Congress on the results of the study.

SEC. 117. NUCLEAR PHYSICS.

    (a) Program.--The Director shall carry out a program of 
experimental and theoretical research, and support associated 
facilities, to discover, explore, and understand all forms of nuclear 
matter.
    (b) Isotope Development and Production for Research Applications.--
The Director shall carry out a program for the production of isotopes, 
including the development of techniques to produce isotopes, that the 
Secretary determines are needed for research, medical, industrial, or 
other purposes. In making this determination, the Secretary shall--
            (1) ensure that, as has been the policy of the United 
        States since the publication in 1965 of Federal Register notice 
        30 Fed. Reg. 3247, isotope production activities do not compete 
        with private industry unless critical national interests 
        necessitate the Federal Government's involvement;
            (2) ensure that activities undertaken pursuant to this 
        section, to the extent practicable, promote the growth of a 
        robust domestic isotope production industry; and
            (3) consider any relevant recommendations made by Federal 
        advisory committees, the National Academies, and interagency 
        working groups in which the Department participates.

SEC. 118. SCIENCE LABORATORIES INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAM.

    (a) Program.--The Director shall carry out a program to improve the 
safety, efficiency, and mission readiness of infrastructure at Office 
of Science laboratories. The program shall include projects to--
            (1) renovate or replace space that does not meet research 
        needs;
            (2) replace facilities that are no longer cost effective to 
        renovate or operate;
            (3) modernize utility systems to prevent failures and 
        ensure efficiency;
            (4) remove excess facilities to allow safe and efficient 
        operations; and
            (5) construct modern facilities to conduct advanced 
        research in controlled environmental conditions.
    (b) Approach.--In carrying out this section, the Director shall 
utilize all available approaches and mechanisms, including capital line 
items, minor construction projects, energy savings performance 
contracts, utility energy service contracts, alternative financing, and 
expense funding, as appropriate.

SEC. 119. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Fiscal Year 2014.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
the Secretary for the Office of Science for fiscal year 2014 
$5,071,000,000, of which--
            (1) $1,712,757,000 shall be for Basic Energy Science;
            (2) $797,521,000 shall be for High Energy Physics;
            (3) $610,196,000 shall be for Biological and Environmental 
        Research;
            (4) $569,938,000 shall be for Nuclear Physics;
            (5) $478,593,000 shall be for Advanced Scientific Computing 
        Research;
            (6) $505,677,000 shall be for Fusion Energy Sciences;
            (7) $97,818,000 shall be for Science Laboratories 
        Infrastructure;
            (8) $185,000,000 shall be for Science Program Direction;
            (9) $87,000,000 shall be for Safeguards and Security; and
            (10) $26,500,000 shall be for Workforce Development for 
        Teachers and Scientists.
    (b) Fiscal Year 2015.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
the Secretary for the Office of Science for fiscal year 2015 
$5,324,550,000, of which--
            (1) $1,900,000,000 shall be for Basic Energy Science;
            (2) $825,000,000 shall be for High Energy Physics;
            (3) $500,000,000 shall be for Biological and Environmental 
        Research;
            (4) $593,573,000 shall be for Nuclear Physics;
            (5) $600,000,000 shall be for Advanced Scientific Computing 
        Research;
            (6) $521,288,000 shall be for Fusion Energy Sciences;
            (7) $79,189,000 shall be for Science Laboratories 
        Infrastructure;
            (8) $185,000,000 shall be for Science Program Direction;
            (9) $94,000,000 shall be for Safeguards and Security; and
            (10) $26,500,000 shall be for Workforce Development for 
        Teachers and Scientists.

                       Subtitle B--Miscellaneous

SEC. 121. TRANSPARENCY.

    (a) Cost Share.--The Secretary shall make public all cost-share 
waivers granted under section 988(b)(3) or (c)(2) of the Energy Policy 
Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16352(b)(3) or (c)(2)) not later than 30 days 
after the waiver is issued. The information shall include--
            (1) the name of the entity receiving the waiver;
            (2) a justification for the reduction or elimination;
            (3) the final cost share percentage;
            (4) the amount of total cost share;
            (5) the date when the waiver is granted; and
            (6) a description of the supported project.
    (b) Technology Transfer Agreements.--The Secretary shall make 
public, not later than 30 days after a National Laboratory enters into 
a technology transfer agreement with a nongovernment entity, basic, 
nonproprietary information related to such technology transfer 
agreement, including--
            (1) Cooperative Research and Development Agreements;
            (2) non-Federal Work for Others Agreements; and
            (3) Agreements for Commercializing Technology under the 
        pilot program described in section 127.
    (c) Financial Awards.--The Secretary shall make public all grants, 
agreements, and other financial support for all research, development, 
demonstration, and commercial application activities within 30 days of 
an agreement. The information shall include--
            (1) the name of the project recipient, including all 
        project partners;
            (2) the amount of the award;
            (3) a project description; and
            (4) the expected timeframe of completion.
    (d) Exemption.--This section shall not require the disclosure of 
information protected from disclosure under section 552(b) of title 5, 
United States Code.

SEC. 122. NATIONAL ENERGY TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that the Department of Energy owns 17 
National Laboratories, 16 of which are contractor-operated. The 
National Energy Technology Laboratory is the exclusive Government-
operated laboratory.
    (b) Assessment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Under Secretary shall enter into an arrangement with 
the National Academy of Public Administration to conduct an assessment 
of the management and operations of the National Energy Technology 
Laboratory.
    (c) Elements of Assessment.--The assessment performed under 
subsection (b) shall--
            (1) compare laboratory management as a government-owned, 
        government-operated model compared to a government-owned, 
        contractor-operated model;
            (2) provide a cost-benefit analysis to support the 
        comparison under paragraph (1); and
            (3) identify a strategy for transitioning the laboratory to 
        a government-owned, contractor-operated model.
    (d) Secretary's Response.--Not later than 90 days after the 
completion of the assessment performed under subsection (b), the 
Secretary shall deliver to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources of the Senate a response to the findings and 
recommendations of the National Academy of Public Administration.

SEC. 123. SAVINGS CLAUSE.

    Nothing in this subtitle or an amendment made by this subtitle 
abrogates or otherwise affects the primary responsibilities of any 
National Laboratory to the Department.

SEC. 124. UNDER SECRETARY FOR SCIENCE AND ENERGY.

    (a) In General.--Section 202(b) of the Department of Energy 
Organization Act (42 U.S.C. 7132(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Under Secretary for Science'' each place 
        it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary for Science and 
        Energy''; and
            (2) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (G), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (G) the 
                following:
                    ``(H) establish appropriate linkages between 
                offices under the jurisdiction of the Under Secretary; 
                and
                    ``(I) perform such functions and duties as the 
                Secretary shall prescribe, consistent with this 
                section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 3164(b)(1) of the Department of Energy Science 
        Education Enhancement Act (42 U.S.C. 7381a(b)(1)) is amended by 
        striking ``Under Secretary for Science'' and inserting ``Under 
        Secretary for Science and Energy''.
            (2) Section 641(h)(2) of the United States Energy Storage 
        Competitiveness Act of 2007 (42 U.S.C. 17231(h)(2)) is amended 
        by striking ``Under Secretary for Science'' and inserting 
        ``Under Secretary for Science and Energy''.

SEC. 125. NATIONAL LABORATORIES OPERATIONS AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall ensure that the following 
duties and responsibilities are carried out through one or more 
appropriate statutory or administrative entities:
            (1) Evaluation, coordination, and promotion of transfer of 
        National Laboratory research and development results to the 
        market in collaboration with the Technology Transfer 
        Coordinator.
            (2) Submission to the Secretary of reports describing 
        recommendations for best practices for the National 
        Laboratories including, with respect to management and 
        operations procedures, conflict of interest regulations, 
        engagement with the private sector, and technology transfer 
        methodologies.
            (3) Implementation of other duties, as the Secretary 
        determines appropriate, to improve the operations and 
        performance of the National Laboratories.
    (b) Reporting.--The Secretary, in consultation with the appropriate 
committees of Congress, shall provide an annual update on progress made 
in carrying out subsection (a), including the improvement of National 
Laboratory operations and performance and strategic departmental and 
National Laboratory coordination.

SEC. 126. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON AN INTEGRATED STRATEGY FOR NATIONAL 
              LABORATORIES IN THE 21ST CENTURY.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the establishment of the independent Commission to 
        Review the Effectiveness of the National Energy Laboratories 
        under section 319 of title III of division D of the 
        Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014, is an important step 
        towards developing a coordinated strategy for the National 
        Laboratories in the 21st century; and
            (2) Congress looks forward to--
                    (A) receiving the findings and conclusions of the 
                Commission; and
                    (B) engaging with the Administration--
                            (i) in strengthening the mission of the 
                        National Laboratories; and
                            (ii) to reform and modernize the operations 
                        and management of the National Laboratories.

SEC. 127. AGREEMENTS FOR COMMERCIALIZING TECHNOLOGY PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall carry out the Agreements for 
Commercializing Technology pilot program of the Department, as 
announced by the Secretary on December 8, 2011, in accordance with this 
section.
    (b) Terms.--Each agreement entered into pursuant to the pilot 
program referred to in subsection (a) shall provide to the contractor 
of the applicable National Laboratory, to the maximum extent determined 
to be appropriate by the Secretary, increased authority to negotiate 
contract terms, such as intellectual property rights, indemnification, 
payment structures, performance guarantees, and multiparty 
collaborations.
    (c) Eligibility.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
        (including regulations), any National Laboratory may enter into 
        an agreement pursuant to the pilot program referred to in 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Agreements with non-federal entities.--To carry out 
        paragraph (1) and subject to paragraph (3), the Secretary shall 
        permit the directors of the National Laboratories to execute 
        agreements with non-Federal entities, including non-Federal 
        entities already receiving Federal funding that will be used to 
        support activities under agreements executed pursuant to 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Restriction.--The requirements of chapter 18 of title 
        35, United States Code (commonly known as the ``Bayh-Dole 
        Act'') shall apply if--
                    (A) the agreement is a funding agreement (as that 
                term is defined in section 201 of that title); and
                    (B) at least 1 of the parties to the funding 
                agreement is eligible to receive rights under that 
                chapter.
    (d) Submission to Secretary.--Each affected director of a National 
Laboratory shall submit to the Secretary, with respect to each 
agreement entered into under this section--
            (1) a summary of information relating to the relevant 
        project;
            (2) the total estimated costs of the project;
            (3) estimated commencement and completion dates of the 
        project; and
            (4) other documentation determined to be appropriate by the 
        Secretary.
    (e) Certification.--The Secretary shall require the contractor of 
the affected National Laboratory to certify that each activity carried 
out under a project for which an agreement is entered into under this 
section--
            (1) is not in direct competition with the private sector; 
        and
            (2) does not present, or minimizes, any apparent conflict 
        of interest, and avoids or neutralizes any actual conflict of 
        interest, as a result of the agreement under this section.
    (f) Extension.--The pilot program referred to in subsection (a) 
shall be extended for a term of 2 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act.
    (g) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the date described in 
subsection (f), the Secretary, in coordination with directors of the 
National Laboratories, shall submit to the Committee on Science, Space, 
and Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report that--
            (1) assesses the overall effectiveness of the pilot program 
        referred to in subsection (a);
            (2) identifies opportunities to improve the effectiveness 
        of the pilot program;
            (3) assesses the potential for program activities to 
        interfere with the responsibilities of the National 
        Laboratories to the Department; and
            (4) provides a recommendation regarding the future of the 
        pilot program.

SEC. 128. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsections (b) and (c), the Secretary 
shall delegate to directors of the National Laboratories signature 
authority with respect to any agreement described in subsection (b) the 
total cost of which (including the National Laboratory contributions 
and project recipient cost share) is less than $500,000.
    (b) Agreements.--Subsection (a) applies to--
            (1) a cooperative research and development agreement;
            (2) a non-Federal work-for-others agreement; and
            (3) Agreements for Commercializing Technology entered into 
        under the pilot program described in section 127.
    (c) Administration.--
            (1) Accountability.--The director of the affected National 
        Laboratory and the affected contractor shall carry out an 
        agreement under this section in accordance with applicable 
        policies of the Department, including by ensuring that the 
        agreement does not compromise any national security, economic, 
        or environmental interest of the United States.
            (2) Certification.--The director of the affected National 
        Laboratory and the affected contractor shall certify that each 
        activity carried out under a project for which an agreement is 
        entered into under this section does not present, or minimizes, 
        any apparent conflict of interest, and avoids or neutralizes 
        any actual conflict of interest, as a result of the agreement 
        under this section.
            (3) Availability of records.--On entering an agreement 
        under this section, the director of a National Laboratory shall 
        submit to the Secretary for monitoring and review all records 
        of the National Laboratory relating to the agreement.
            (4) Rates.--The director of a National Laboratory may 
        charge higher rates for services performed under a partnership 
        agreement entered into pursuant to this section, regardless of 
        the full cost of recovery.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--Section 12 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3710a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and indenting 
                the subparagraphs appropriately;
                    (B) by striking ``Each Federal agency'' and 
                inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        each Federal agency''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Exception.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), in 
        accordance with section 128(a) of the Enabling Innovation for 
        Science, Technology, and Energy in America Act of 2014, 
        approval by the Secretary of Energy shall not be required for 
        any technology transfer agreement proposed to be entered into 
        by a National Laboratory of the Department of Energy, the total 
        cost of which (including the National Laboratory contributions 
        and project recipient cost share) is less than $500,000.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``subsection (a)(1)'' 
        each place it appears and inserting ``subsection (a)(1)(A)''.

SEC. 129. INCLUSION OF EARLY-STAGE TECHNOLOGY DEMONSTRATION IN 
              AUTHORIZED TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER ACTIVITIES.

    Section 1001 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16391) is 
amended by--
            (1) redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
            (2) inserting after subsection (f) the following:
    ``(g) Early-Stage Technology Demonstration.--The Secretary shall 
permit the directors of the National Laboratories to use funds 
allocated for technology transfer within the Department to carry out 
early-stage and pre-commercial technology demonstration activities to 
remove technology barriers that limit private sector interest and 
demonstrate potential commercial applications of any research and 
technologies arising from National Laboratory activities intended to 
meet the Federal Government's research needs.''.

SEC. 130. FUNDING COMPETITIVENESS FOR INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION 
              AND OTHER NONPROFIT INSTITUTIONS.

    Section 988(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
16352(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Except as provided in 
        paragraphs (2) and (3)'' and inserting ``Except as provided in 
        paragraphs (2), (3), and (4)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Exemption for institutions of higher education and 
        other nonprofit institutions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to 
                a research or development activity performed by an 
                institution of higher education or nonprofit 
                institution (as defined in section 4 of the Stevenson-
                Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 
                3703)).
                    ``(B) Termination date.--The exemption under 
                subparagraph (A) shall apply during the 6-year period 
                beginning on the date of enactment of this 
                paragraph.''.

SEC. 131. REPORT BY GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE.

    Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a 
report describing the results of the projects developed under sections 
127, 128, and 129, and the amendments made thereby, including 
information regarding--
            (1) partnerships initiated as a result of those projects 
        and the potential linkages presented by those partnerships with 
        respect to national priorities and other taxpayer-funded 
        research; and
            (2) whether the activities carried out under those projects 
        result in--
                    (A) fiscal savings;
                    (B) expansion of National Laboratory capabilities;
                    (C) increased efficiency of technology transfers; 
                or
                    (D) an increase in general efficiency of the 
                National Laboratory system.

SEC. 132. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Department.--The term ``Department'' means the 
        Department of Energy.
            (2) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Office of Science.
            (3) National laboratories.--The term ``National 
        Laboratories'' means Department of Energy nonmilitary national 
        laboratories, including--
                    (A) Ames Laboratory;
                    (B) Argonne National Laboratory;
                    (C) Brookhaven National Laboratory;
                    (D) Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory;
                    (E) Idaho National Laboratory;
                    (F) Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory;
                    (G) National Energy Technology Laboratory;
                    (H) National Renewable Energy Laboratory;
                    (I) Oak Ridge National Laboratory;
                    (J) Pacific Northwest National Laboratory;
                    (K) Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory;
                    (L) Savannah River National Laboratory;
                    (M) Stanford Linear Accelerator Center;
                    (N) Thomas Jefferson National Accelerator Facility; 
                and
                    (O) any laboratories operated by the National 
                Nuclear Security Administration, but only with respect 
                to the civilian energy activities thereof.
            (4) Office of science.--The term ``Office of Science'' 
        means the Department of Energy Office of Science.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (6) STEM.--The term ``STEM'' means, science, technology, 
        engineering, and mathematics.
            (7) Under secretary.--The term ``Under Secretary'' means 
        the Under Secretary for Science and Energy.

                          TITLE II--ONE FUTURE

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Our Nation's Energy Future Act of 
2014'' or the ``ONE Future Act''.

           Subtitle A--Crosscutting Research and Development

SEC. 211. CROSSCUTTING RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The President believes that the United States energy 
        policy must have ``an all-of-the-above strategy for the 21st 
        century that develops every source of American-made energy''.
            (2) The Department plays a strategic role in critical 
        energy research and development to ensure a balanced, 
        prosperous, and secure energy future.
    (b) Addressing Our Nation's Energy Future Issues.--The Secretary 
shall, through the Under Secretary for Science and Energy, utilize the 
capabilities of the Department to address issues facing our Nation's 
energy future, including identifying strategic opportunities for 
collaborative research, development, demonstration, and commercial 
application of innovative science and technologies for--
            (1) advancing the state of the energy-water-land use nexus;
            (2) improving energy transmission and distribution systems 
        security and resiliency;
            (3) utilizing supercritical carbon dioxide in electric 
        power generation;
            (4) subsurface engineering;
            (5) exascale computing; and
            (6) critical challenges identified through comprehensive 
        energy studies, evaluations, and reviews.
    (c) Crosscutting Approaches.--To the maximum extent practicable, 
the Secretary shall seek to leverage existing programs, and consolidate 
and coordinate activities, throughout the Department to promote 
collaboration and crosscutting approaches within programs.
    (d) Additional Actions.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) prioritize activities that promote the utilization of 
        all affordable domestic resources;
            (2) identify opportunities for public-private partnerships, 
        innovative financing mechanisms, and grant challenges;
            (3) develop a rigorous and realistic planning, evaluation, 
        and technical assessment framework for setting objective, long-
        term strategic goals and evaluating progress that ensures the 
        integrity and independence to insulate planning from political 
        influence and the agility and flexibility to adapt to market 
        dynamics;
            (4) ensure that activities shall be undertaken in a manner 
        that does not duplicate other activities within the Department 
        or other Federal Government activities; and
            (5) identify programs that may be more effectively left to 
        the States, industry, nongovernmental organizations, 
        institutions of higher education, or other stakeholders.

SEC. 212. STRATEGIC RESEARCH PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS AND COORDINATION PLAN.

    Section 994 of Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16358) is 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 994. STRATEGIC RESEARCH PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS AND COORDINATION 
              PLAN.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall periodically review all of 
the science and technology activities of the Department in a strategic 
framework that takes into account the frontiers of science to which the 
Department can contribute, the national needs relevant to the 
Department's statutory missions, and global energy dynamics.
    ``(b) Coordination Analysis and Plan.--As part of the review under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall develop a coordination plan to 
improve coordination and collaboration in research, development, 
demonstration, and commercial application activities across Department 
organizational boundaries.
    ``(c) Plan Contents.--The plan shall describe--
            ``(1) cross-cutting scientific and technical issues and 
        research questions that span more than one program or major 
        office of the Department;
            ``(2) how the applied technology programs of the Department 
        are coordinating their activities, and addressing those 
        questions;
            ``(3) ways in which the technical interchange within the 
        Department, particularly between the Office of Science and the 
        applied technology programs, can be enhanced, including ways in 
        which the research agendas of the Office of Science and the 
        applied programs can interact and assist each other;
            ``(4) a description of how the Secretary will ensure that 
        the Department's overall research agenda include, in addition 
        to fundamental, curiosity-driven research, fundamental research 
        related to topics of concern to the applied programs, and 
        applications in Departmental technology programs of research 
        results generated by fundamental, curiosity-driven research;
            ``(5) critical assessments of any ongoing programs that 
        have experienced sub-par performance or cost over-runs of 10 
        percent or more over one or more years; and
            ``(6) activities that may be more effectively left to the 
        States, industry, nongovernmental organizations, institutions 
        of higher education, or other stakeholders.
    ``(d) Plan Transmittal.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of the ONE Future Act, and every 4 years thereafter, the 
Secretary shall transmit to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources of the Senate the results of the review under 
subsection (a) and the coordination plan under subsection (b).''.

SEC. 213. STRATEGY FOR FACILITIES AND INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Amendments.--Section 993 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
U.S.C. 16357) is amended--
            (1) by amending the section heading to read as follows: 
        ``strategy for facilities and infrastructure''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``2008'' inserting 
        ``2018''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The item relating to section 993 
in the table of contents of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 is amended to 
read as follows:

``Sec. 993. Strategy for facilities and infrastructure.''.

SEC. 214. DISTRIBUTED ENERGY AND ELECTRIC ENERGY SYSTEMS.

    Section 921 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16211) is 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 921. DISTRIBUTED ENERGY AND ELECTRIC ENERGY SYSTEMS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall carry out programs of 
research, development, demonstration, and commercial application on 
distributed energy resources and systems reliability and efficiency, to 
improve the reliability and efficiency of distributed energy resources 
and systems, integrating advanced energy technologies with grid 
connectivity, including activities described in this subtitle. The 
programs shall address advanced energy technologies and systems and 
advanced grid security, resiliency, and reliability technologies.
    ``(b) Objectives.--To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary 
shall seek to--
            ``(1) leverage existing programs;
            ``(2) consolidate and coordinate activities throughout the 
        Department to promote collaboration and crosscutting 
        approaches;
            ``(3) ensure activities are undertaken in a manner that 
        does not duplicate other activities within the Department or 
        other Federal Government activities; and
            ``(4) identify programs that may be more effectively left 
        to the States, industry, nongovernmental organizations, 
        institutions of higher education, or other stakeholders.''.

SEC. 215. DISTRIBUTED ENERGY TECHNOLOGY COORDINATING CONSORTIA.

    (a) Amendments.--Section 924 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
U.S.C. 16214) is amended--
            (1) by amending the section heading to read as follows: 
        ``distributed energy technology coordinating consortia'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (2) of subsection (b); and
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (3) of subsection (b) as 
        paragraph (2).
    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The item relating to section 924 
in the table of contents of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 is amended to 
read as follows:

``Sec. 924. Distributed energy technology coordinating consortia.''.

SEC. 216. ELECTRIC TRANSMISSION AND DISTRIBUTION RESEARCH AND 
              DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Amendments.--Section 925 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
U.S.C. 16215) is amended--
            (1) by amending the section heading to read as follows: 
        ``electric transmission and distribution research and 
        development'';
            (2) in subsection (a), by inserting ``innovations for'' 
        after ``which shall include'';
            (3) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``this Act'' and 
        inserting ``the ONE Future Act''; and
            (4) by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:
    ``(c) Implementation.--
            ``(1) Consortium.--The Secretary shall consider 
        implementing the program under this section using a consortium 
        of participants from industry, institutions of higher 
        education, and National Laboratories.
            ``(2) Objectives.--To the maximum extent practicable the 
        Secretary shall seek to--
                    ``(A) leverage existing programs;
                    ``(B) consolidate and coordinate activities, 
                throughout the Department to promote collaboration and 
                crosscutting approaches;
                    ``(C) ensure activities are undertaken in a manner 
                that does not duplicate other activities within the 
                Department or other Federal Government activities; and
                    ``(D) identify programs that may be more 
                effectively left to the States, industry, 
                nongovernmental organizations, institutions of higher 
                education, or other stakeholders.''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The item relating to section 925 
in the table of contents of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 is amended to 
read as follows:

``Sec. 925. Electric transmission and distribution research and 
                            development.''.

          Subtitle B--Nuclear Energy Research and Development

SEC. 221. OBJECTIVES.

    Section 951 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271) is 
amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct programs of civilian 
nuclear energy research, development, demonstration, and commercial 
application, including activities described in this subtitle. Such 
programs shall take into consideration the following objectives:
            ``(1) Enhancing nuclear power's viability as part of the 
        United States energy portfolio.
            ``(2) Reducing used nuclear fuel and nuclear waste products 
        generated by civilian nuclear energy.
            ``(3) Supporting technological advances in areas that 
        industry by itself is not likely to undertake because of 
        technical and financial uncertainty.
            ``(4) Providing the technical means to reduce the 
        likelihood of nuclear proliferation.
            ``(5) Maintaining a cadre of nuclear scientists and 
        engineers.
            ``(6) Maintaining National Laboratory and university 
        nuclear programs, including their infrastructure.
            ``(7) Supporting both individual researchers and 
        multidisciplinary teams of researchers to pioneer new 
        approaches in nuclear energy, science, and technology.
            ``(8) Developing, planning, constructing, acquiring, and 
        operating special equipment and facilities for the use of 
        researchers.
            ``(9) Supporting technology transfer and other appropriate 
        activities to assist the nuclear energy industry, and other 
        users of nuclear science and engineering, including activities 
        addressing reliability, availability, productivity, component 
        aging, safety, and security of nuclear power plants.
            ``(10) Reducing the environmental impact of nuclear energy-
        related activities.
            ``(11) Researching and developing technologies and 
        processes to meet Federal and State requirements and standards 
        for nuclear power systems.'';
            (2) by striking subsections (b) through (d); and
            (3) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (b).

SEC. 222. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES STUDY.

    Section 951 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271) is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Program Objectives Study.--In furtherance of the program 
objectives listed in subsection (a) of this section, the Government 
Accountability Office shall, within one year after the date of 
enactment of this subsection, transmit to the Congress a report on the 
results of a study on the scientific and technical merit of major 
Federal and State requirements and standards, including moratoria, that 
delay or impede the further development and commercialization of 
nuclear power, and how the Department can assist in overcoming such 
delays or impediments.''.

SEC. 223. NUCLEAR ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS.

    Section 952 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16272) is 
amended by striking subsections (c) through (e) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(c) Reactor Concepts.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out a program 
        of research, development, demonstration, and commercial 
        application to advance nuclear power systems as well as 
        technologies to sustain currently deployed systems.
            ``(2) Designs and technologies.--In conducting the program 
        under this subsection, the Secretary shall examine advanced 
        reactor designs and nuclear technologies, including those 
        that--
                    ``(A) are economically competitive with other 
                electric power generation plants;
                    ``(B) have higher efficiency, lower cost, and 
                improved safety compared to reactors in operation as of 
                the date of enactment of the ONE Future Act;
                    ``(C) utilize passive safety features;
                    ``(D) minimize proliferation risks;
                    ``(E) substantially reduce production of high-level 
                waste per unit of output;
                    ``(F) increase the life and sustainability of 
                reactor systems currently deployed;
                    ``(G) use improved instrumentation;
                    ``(H) are capable of producing large-scale 
                quantities of hydrogen or process heat;
                    ``(I) minimize water usage or use alternatives to 
                water as a cooling mechanism; or
                    ``(J) use nuclear energy as part of an integrated 
                energy system.
            ``(3) International cooperation.--In carrying out the 
        program under this subsection, the Secretary shall seek 
        opportunities to enhance the progress of the program through 
        international cooperation through such organizations as the 
        Generation IV International Forum or any other international 
        collaboration the Secretary considers appropriate.
            ``(4) Exceptions.--No funds authorized to be appropriated 
        to carry out the activities described in this subsection shall 
        be used to fund the activities authorized under sections 641 
        through 645.''.

SEC. 224. SMALL MODULAR REACTOR PROGRAM.

    Section 952 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16272) is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Small Modular Reactor Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out a small 
        modular reactor program to promote research, development, 
        demonstration, and commercial application of small modular 
        reactors, including through cost-shared projects for commercial 
        application of reactor systems designs.
            ``(2) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with and 
        utilize the expertise of the Secretary of the Navy in 
        establishing and carrying out such program.
            ``(3) Additional activities.--Activities may also include 
        development of advanced computer modeling and simulation tools, 
        by Federal and non-Federal entities, which demonstrate and 
        validate new design capabilities of innovative small modular 
        reactor designs.
            ``(4) Definition.--For the purposes of this subsection, the 
        term `small modular reactor' means a nuclear reactor meeting 
        generally accepted industry standards--
                    ``(A) with a rated capacity of less than 300 
                electrical megawatts;
                    ``(B) with respect to which most parts can be 
                factory assembled and shipped as modules to a reactor 
                plant site for assembly; and
                    ``(C) that can be constructed and operated in 
                combination with similar reactors at a single site.''.

SEC. 225. CONVENTIONAL IMPROVEMENTS TO NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS.

    Section 952 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16272) is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Conventional Improvements to Nuclear Power Plants.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may carry out a Nuclear 
        Energy Research Initiative for research and development related 
        to power conversion improvements to nuclear power plants to 
        promote the research, development, demonstration, and 
        commercial application of--
                    ``(A) cooling systems;
                    ``(B) turbine technologies;
                    ``(C) heat exchangers and pump design;
                    ``(D) special coatings to improve lifetime of 
                components and performance of heat exchangers; and
                    ``(E) advanced power conversion systems for 
                advanced reactor technologies.
            ``(2) Administration.--The Secretary may undertake 
        initiatives under this subsection only when the goals are 
        relevant and proper to enhance the performance of technologies 
        developed under subsection (c). Not more than $10,000,000 of 
        funds authorized for this section may be used for carrying out 
        this subsection.''.

SEC. 226. FUEL CYCLE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Amendments.--Section 953 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
U.S.C. 16273) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading by striking ``advanced fuel 
        cycle initiative'' and inserting ``fuel cycle research and 
        development'';
            (2) by striking subsection (a);
            (3) by redesignating subsections (b) through (d) as 
        subsections (d) through (f), respectively; and
            (4) by inserting before subsection (d), as so redesignated 
        by paragraph (3) of this subsection, the following new 
        subsections:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a fuel cycle 
research, development, demonstration, and commercial application 
program (referred to in this section as the `program') on fuel cycle 
options that improve uranium resource utilization, maximize energy 
generation, minimize nuclear waste creation, improve safety, mitigate 
risk of proliferation, and improve waste management in support of a 
national strategy for spent nuclear fuel and the reactor concepts 
research, development, demonstration, and commercial application 
program under section 952(c).
    ``(b) Fuel Cycle Options.--Under this section the Secretary may 
consider implementing the following initiatives:
            ``(1) Open cycle.--Developing fuels, including the use of 
        nonuranium materials and alternate claddings, for use in 
        reactors that increase energy generation, improve safety 
        performance and margins, and minimize the amount of nuclear 
        waste produced in an open fuel cycle.
            ``(2) Recycle.--Developing advanced recycling technologies, 
        including advanced reactor concepts to improve resource 
        utilization, reduce proliferation risks, and minimize 
        radiotoxicity, decay heat, and mass and volume of nuclear waste 
        to the greatest extent possible.
            ``(3) Advanced storage methods.--Developing advanced 
        storage technologies for both onsite and long-term storage that 
        substantially prolong the effective life of current storage 
        devices or that substantially improve upon existing nuclear 
        waste storage technologies and methods, including repositories.
            ``(4) Alternative and deep borehole storage methods.--
        Developing alternative storage methods for long-term storage, 
        including deep boreholes into stable crystalline rock 
        formations and mined repositories in a range of geologic media.
            ``(5) Fast test reactor.--Investigating the potential 
        research benefits of a fast test reactor to conduct experiments 
        on fuels and materials related to fuel forms and fuel cycles 
        that will increase fuel utilization, reduce proliferation 
        risks, and reduce nuclear waste products.
            ``(6) Other technologies.--Developing any other technology 
        or initiative that the Secretary determines is likely to 
        advance the objectives of the program.
    ``(c) Additional Advanced Recycling and Crosscutting Activities.--
In addition to and in support of the specific initiatives described in 
paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (b), the Secretary may support 
the following activities:
            ``(1) Development and testing of integrated process flow 
        sheets for advanced nuclear fuel recycling processes.
            ``(2) Research to characterize the byproducts and waste 
        streams resulting from fuel recycling processes.
            ``(3) Research and development on reactor concepts or 
        transmutation technologies that improve resource utilization or 
        reduce the radiotoxicity of waste streams.
            ``(4) Research and development on waste treatment processes 
        and separations technologies, advanced waste forms, and 
        quantification of proliferation risks.
            ``(5) Identification and evaluation of test and 
        experimental facilities necessary to successfully implement the 
        advanced fuel cycle initiative.
            ``(6) Advancement of fuel cycle-related modeling and 
        simulation capabilities.
            ``(7) Research to understand the behavior of high-burnup 
        fuels.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The item relating to section 953 in the 
table of contents of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 is amended to read 
as follows:

``Sec. 953. Fuel cycle research and development.''.

SEC. 227. NUCLEAR ENERGY ENABLING TECHNOLOGIES PROGRAM.

    (a) Amendment.--Subtitle E of title IX of the Energy Policy Act of 
2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:

``SEC. 958. NUCLEAR ENERGY ENABLING TECHNOLOGIES.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct a program to support 
the integration of activities undertaken through the reactor concepts 
research, development, demonstration, and commercial application 
program under section 952(c) and the fuel cycle research and 
development program under section 953, and support crosscutting nuclear 
energy concepts. Activities commenced under this section shall be 
concentrated on broadly applicable research and development focus 
areas.
    ``(b) Activities.--Activities conducted under this section may 
include research involving--
            ``(1) advanced reactor materials;
            ``(2) advanced radiation mitigation methods;
            ``(3) advanced proliferation and security risk assessment 
        methods;
            ``(4) advanced sensors and instrumentation;
            ``(5) advanced nuclear manufacturing methods;
            ``(6) high performance computation modeling, including 
        multiphysics, multidimensional modeling and simulation for 
        nuclear energy systems; and
            ``(7) any crosscutting technology or transformative concept 
        aimed at establishing substantial and revolutionary 
        enhancements in the performance of future nuclear energy 
        systems that the Secretary considers relevant and appropriate 
        to the purpose of this section.
    ``(c) Report.--The Secretary shall submit, as part of the annual 
budget submission of the Department, a report on the activities of the 
program conducted under this section, which shall include a brief 
evaluation of each activity's progress.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents of the Energy 
Policy Act of 2005 is amended by adding at the end of the items for 
subtitle E of title IX the following new item:

``Sec. 958. Nuclear energy enabling technologies.''.

SEC. 228. TECHNICAL STANDARDS COLLABORATION.

    (a) In General.--The Director of the National Institute of 
Standards and Technology shall establish a nuclear energy standards 
committee (in this section referred to as the ``technical standards 
committee'') to facilitate and support, consistent with the National 
Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995, the development or 
revision of technical standards for new and existing nuclear power 
plants and advanced nuclear technologies.
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) In general.--The technical standards committee shall 
        include representatives from appropriate Federal agencies and 
        the private sector, and be open to materially affected 
        organizations involved in the development or application of 
        nuclear energy-related standards.
            (2) Co-chairs.--The technical standards committee shall be 
        co-chaired by a representative from the National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology and a representative from a private 
        sector standards organization.
    (c) Duties.--The technical standards committee shall, in 
cooperation with appropriate Federal agencies--
            (1) perform a needs assessment to identify and evaluate the 
        technical standards that are needed to support nuclear energy, 
        including those needed to support new and existing nuclear 
        power plants and advanced nuclear technologies;
            (2) formulate, coordinate, and recommend priorities for the 
        development of new technical standards and the revision of 
        existing technical standards to address the needs identified 
        under paragraph (1);
            (3) facilitate and support collaboration and cooperation 
        among standards developers to address the needs and priorities 
        identified under paragraphs (1) and (2);
            (4) as appropriate, coordinate with other national, 
        regional, or international efforts on nuclear energy-related 
        technical standards in order to avoid conflict and duplication 
        and to ensure global compatibility; and
            (5) promote the establishment and maintenance of a database 
        of nuclear energy-related technical standards.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $1,000,000 for fiscal year 2015 to the Director of the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology for activities under 
this section.

SEC. 229. EVALUATION OF LONG-TERM OPERATING NEEDS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall enter into an arrangement with 
the National Academies to conduct an evaluation of the scientific and 
technological challenges to the long-term maintenance and safe 
operation of currently deployed nuclear power reactors up to and beyond 
the specified design-life of reactor systems.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary shall transmit to the Congress, and make 
publically available, the results of the evaluation undertaken by the 
Academies pursuant to subsection (a).

SEC. 230. AVAILABLE FACILITIES DATABASE.

    The Secretary shall prepare a database of non-Federal user 
facilities receiving Federal funds that may be used for unclassified 
nuclear energy research.   The Secretary shall make this database 
accessible on the Department's website.

SEC. 231. NUCLEAR WASTE DISPOSAL.

    To the extent consistent with the requirements of current law, the 
Department shall be responsible for disposal of high-level radioactive 
waste or spent nuclear fuel generated by reactors under the programs 
authorized in this subtitle, or the amendments made by this subtitle.

    Subtitle C--Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Research and 
                              Development

SEC. 241. ENERGY EFFICIENCY.

    Section 911 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16191) is 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 911. ENERGY EFFICIENCY.

    ``(a) Objectives.--The Secretary shall conduct programs of energy 
efficiency research, development, demonstration, and commercial 
application, including activities described in this subtitle. Such 
programs shall prioritize activities that industry by itself is not 
likely to undertake because of technical, financial, or regulatory 
uncertainty, and take into consideration the following objectives:
            ``(1) Increasing energy efficiency.
            ``(2) Reducing the cost of energy and making the economy 
        more competitive.
            ``(3) Improving the energy security of the United States.
            ``(4) Reducing the environmental impact of energy-related 
        activities.
    ``(b) Programs.--Programs under this subtitle shall include 
research, development, demonstration, and commercial application of--
            ``(1) innovative, affordable technologies to improve the 
        energy efficiency and environmental performance of vehicles, 
        including weight and drag reduction technologies, and whole-
        vehicle design optimization;
            ``(2) cost-effective technologies, for new construction and 
        retrofit, to improve the energy efficiency and environmental 
        performance of buildings, using a whole-buildings approach;
            ``(3) advanced technologies to improve the energy 
        efficiency, environmental performance, and process efficiency 
        of energy-intensive and waste-intensive industries; and
            ``(4) technologies to improve the energy efficiency of 
        appliances and mechanical systems for buildings in extreme 
        climates, including cogeneration, trigeneration, and 
        polygeneration units and increased use of renewable resources, 
        or alternative fuels.''.

SEC. 242. NEXT GENERATION LIGHTING INITIATIVE.

    Section 912 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16192) is 
repealed.

SEC. 243. BUILDING STANDARDS.

    Section 914 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16194) is 
amended by striking subsection (c).

SEC. 244. SECONDARY ELECTRIC VEHICLE BATTERY USE PROGRAM.

    Section 915 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16195) is 
repealed.

SEC. 245. ENERGY EFFICIENCY SCIENCE INITIATIVE.

    Section 916(a) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
16196(a)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish an Energy 
Efficiency Science Initiative to be managed by the Under Secretary for 
Science and Energy, for grants to be competitively awarded and subject 
to peer review for research relating to energy efficiency 
innovations.''.

SEC. 246. ADVANCED ENERGY TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER CENTERS.

    Section 917 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16197) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by inserting ``and'' at the end of paragraph 
                (2)(B);
                    (B) by striking ``; and'' at the end of paragraph 
                (3) and inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking paragraph (4);
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (1);
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (5) as 
                paragraphs (1) through (4), respectively; and
                    (C) by striking paragraph (6);
            (3) by amending subsection (g) to read as follows:
    ``(g) Prohibition.--None of the funds awarded under this section 
may be used for the construction of facilities or the deployment of 
commercially available technologies.''; and
            (4) by striking subsection (i).

SEC. 247. RENEWABLE ENERGY.

    Section 931 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16231) is 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 931. RENEWABLE ENERGY.

    ``(a) In General.--
            ``(1) Objectives.--The Secretary shall conduct programs of 
        renewable energy research, development, demonstration, and 
        commercial application, including activities described in this 
        subtitle. Such programs shall prioritize activities that 
        industry by itself is not likely to undertake because of 
        technical, financial, or regulatory uncertainty, and take into 
        consideration the following objectives:
                    ``(A) Increasing the conversion efficiency of all 
                forms of renewable energy through improved 
                technologies.
                    ``(B) Decreasing the cost of renewable energy 
                generation and delivery.
                    ``(C) Promoting the diversity of the energy supply.
                    ``(D) Decreasing the dependence of the United 
                States on foreign mineral resources.
                    ``(E) Improving United States energy security.
                    ``(F) Decreasing the environmental impact of 
                renewable energy-related activities.
                    ``(G) Increasing the export of renewable generation 
                technologies from the United States.
            ``(2) Programs.--
                    ``(A) Solar energy.--The Secretary shall conduct a 
                program of research, development, demonstration, and 
                commercial application for solar energy, including 
                innovations in--
                            ``(i) photovoltaics;
                            ``(ii) solar heating;
                            ``(iii) concentrating solar power;
                            ``(iv) lighting systems that integrate 
                        sunlight and electrical lighting in complement 
                        to each other;
                            ``(v) manufacturability of low cost, high 
                        quality solar systems; and
                            ``(vi) development of technologies that can 
                        be easily integrated into new and existing 
                        buildings.
                    ``(B) Wind energy.--The Secretary shall conduct a 
                program of research, development, demonstration, and 
                commercial application for wind energy, including 
                innovations in--
                            ``(i) low speed wind energy;
                            ``(ii) testing and verification 
                        technologies;
                            ``(iii) distributed wind energy generation; 
                        and
                            ``(iv) transformational technologies for 
                        harnessing wind energy.
                    ``(C) Geothermal.--The Secretary shall conduct a 
                program of research, development, demonstration, and 
                commercial application for geothermal energy. The 
                program shall focus on developing innovative and 
                transformational technologies for reducing the costs of 
                geothermal energy, including technologies for--
                            ``(i) improving detection of geothermal 
                        resources;
                            ``(ii) decreasing drilling costs;
                            ``(iii) decreasing maintenance costs 
                        through improved materials;
                            ``(iv) increasing the potential for other 
                        revenue sources, such as mineral production; 
                        and
                            ``(v) increasing the understanding of 
                        reservoir life cycle and management.
                    ``(D) Hydropower.--The Secretary shall conduct a 
                program of research, development, demonstration, and 
                commercial application for cost competitive 
                technologies that enable the development of new and 
                incremental hydropower capacity, adding to the 
                diversity of the energy supply of the United States, 
                including:
                            ``(i) Advanced technologies to enhance 
                        environmental performance and yield greater 
                        energy efficiencies.
                            ``(ii) Ocean energy, including wave energy.
                    ``(E) Miscellaneous projects.--The Secretary shall 
                conduct research, development, demonstration, and 
                commercial application programs for--
                            ``(i) the combined use of renewable energy 
                        technologies with one another and with other 
                        energy technologies, including the combined use 
                        of renewable power and fossil technologies;
                            ``(ii) renewable energy technologies for 
                        cogeneration of hydrogen and electricity;
                            ``(iii) kinetic hydro turbines; and
                            ``(iv) the Pioneering Energy Research 
                        Program under section 262 of the ONE Future 
                        Act.
    ``(b) Rural Demonstration Projects.--In carrying out this section, 
the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall 
give priority to demonstrations that assist in delivering electricity 
to rural and remote locations including--
            ``(1) advanced renewable power technology, including 
        combined use with fossil technologies;
            ``(2) biomass; and
            ``(3) geothermal energy systems.
    ``(c) Analysis and Evaluation.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct analysis and 
        evaluation in support of the renewable energy programs under 
        this subtitle. These activities shall be used to guide budget 
        and program decisions, and shall include--
                    ``(A) economic and technical analysis of renewable 
                energy potential, including resource assessment;
                    ``(B) analysis of past program performance, both in 
                terms of technical advances and in market introduction 
                of renewable energy;
                    ``(C) assessment of domestic and international 
                market drivers, including the impacts of any Federal, 
                State, or local grants, loans, loan guarantees, tax 
                incentives, statutory or regulatory requirements, or 
                other government initiatives; and
                    ``(D) any other analysis or evaluation that the 
                Secretary considers appropriate.
            ``(2) Funding.--The Secretary may designate up to 1 percent 
        of the funds appropriated for carrying out this subtitle for 
        analysis and evaluation activities under this subsection.
            ``(3) Submittal to congress.--This analysis and evaluation 
        shall be submitted to the Committee on Science, Space, and 
        Technology of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate at least 30 days 
        before each annual budget request is submitted to Congress.''.

SEC. 248. BIOENERGY PROGRAM.

    Section 932 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16232) is 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 932. BIOENERGY PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Program.--The Secretary shall conduct a program of research, 
development, demonstration, and commercial application for bioenergy, 
including innovations in--
            ``(1) biopower energy systems;
            ``(2) biofuels;
            ``(3) bioproducts;
            ``(4) integrated biorefineries that may produce biopower, 
        biofuels, and bioproducts; and
            ``(5) cross-cutting research and development in feedstocks.
    ``(b) Biofuels and Bioproducts.--The goals of the biofuels and 
bioproducts programs shall be to develop, in partnership with industry 
and institutions of higher education--
            ``(1) advanced biochemical and thermochemical conversion 
        technologies capable of making fuels from lignocellulosic 
        feedstocks that are price-competitive with fossil-based fuels 
        and fully compatible with either internal combustion engines or 
        fuel cell-powered vehicles;
            ``(2) advanced biotechnology processes capable of making 
        biofuels and bioproducts with emphasis on development of 
        biorefinery technologies using enzyme-based processing systems; 
        and
            ``(3) other advanced processes that will enable the 
        development of cost-effective bioproducts, including biofuels.
    ``(d) Retrofit Technologies for the Development of Ethanol From 
Cellulosic Materials.--The Secretary shall establish a program of 
research, development, demonstration, and commercial application for 
technologies and processes to enable biorefineries that exclusively use 
corn grain or corn starch as a feedstock to produce ethanol to be 
retrofitted to accept a range of biomass, including lignocellulosic 
feedstocks.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Biomass.--The term `biomass' means--
                    ``(A) any organic material grown for the purpose of 
                being converted to energy;
                    ``(B) any organic byproduct of agriculture 
                (including wastes from food production and processing) 
                that can be converted into energy; or
                    ``(C) any waste material that can be converted to 
                energy, is segregated from other waste materials, and 
                is derived from--
                            ``(i) any of the following forest-related 
                        resources: mill residues, precommercial 
                        thinnings, slash, brush, or otherwise 
                        nonmerchantable material;
                            ``(ii) wood waste materials, including 
                        waste pallets, crates, dunnage, manufacturing 
                        and construction wood wastes (other than 
                        pressure-treated, chemically treated, or 
                        painted wood wastes), and landscape or right-
                        of-way tree trimmings, but not including 
                        municipal solid waste, gas derived from the 
                        biodegradation of municipal solid waste, or 
                        paper that is commonly recycled; or
                            ``(iii) solids derived from waste water 
                        treatment processes.
            ``(2) Lignocellulosic feedstock.--The term `lignocellulosic 
        feedstock' means any portion of a plant or coproduct from 
        conversion, including crops, trees, forest residues, and 
        agricultural residues not specifically grown for food, 
        including from barley grain, grapeseed, rice bran, rice hulls, 
        rice straw, soybean matter, and sugarcane bagasse.''.

SEC. 249. CONCENTRATING SOLAR POWER RESEARCH PROGRAM.

    Section 934 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16234) is 
repealed.

SEC. 250. RENEWABLE ENERGY IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS.

    Section 935 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16235) and 
the item relating thereto in the table of contents of that Act are 
repealed.

           Subtitle D--Fossil Energy Research and Development

SEC. 261. FOSSIL ENERGY.

    Section 961 of Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16291) is 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 961. FOSSIL ENERGY.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall carry out research, 
development, demonstration, and commercial application programs in 
fossil energy, including activities under this subtitle, with the goal 
of improving the efficiency, effectiveness, and environmental 
performance of fossil energy production, upgrading, conversion, and 
consumption. Such programs shall take into consideration the following 
objectives:
            ``(1) Increasing the energy conversion efficiency of all 
        forms of fossil energy through improved technologies.
            ``(2) Decreasing the cost of all fossil energy production, 
        generation, and delivery.
            ``(3) Promoting diversity of energy supply.
            ``(4) Decreasing the dependence of the United States on 
        foreign energy supplies.
            ``(5) Improving United States energy security.
            ``(6) Decreasing the environmental impact of energy-related 
        activities.
            ``(7) Increasing the export of fossil energy-related 
        equipment, technology, and services from the United States.
    ``(b) Limitations.--
            ``(1) Uses.--None of the funds authorized for carrying out 
        this section may be used for Fossil Energy Environmental 
        Restoration.
            ``(2) Institutions of higher education.--Not less than 20 
        percent of the funds appropriated for carrying out section 964 
        of this Act for each fiscal year shall be dedicated to research 
        and development carried out at institutions of higher 
        education.
            ``(3) Use for regulatory assessments or determinations.--
        The results of any research, development, demonstration, or 
        commercial application projects or activities of the Department 
        may not be used for regulatory assessments or determinations by 
        Federal regulatory authorities.
    ``(c) Assessments.--
            ``(1) Constraints against bringing resources to market.--
        Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the ONE 
        Future Act, the Secretary shall transmit to Congress an 
        assessment of the technical, institutional, policy, and 
        regulatory constraints to bringing new domestic fossil 
        resources to market.
            ``(2) Technology capabilities.--Not later than 2 years 
        after the date of enactment of the ONE Future Act, the 
        Secretary shall transmit to Congress a long-term assessment of 
        existing and projected technological capabilities for expanded 
        production from domestic unconventional oil, gas, and methane 
        reserves.''.

SEC. 262. PIONEERING ENERGY RESEARCH.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary, in conjunction with the program 
consortium selected under subsection (d), shall establish and carry out 
a public-private partnership Pioneering Energy Research Program for 
research, development, demonstration, and commercial application of 
technologies to maximize domestic energy production, improve 
environmental stewardship, ensure domestic energy security, and 
maintain global energy leadership.
    (b) Covered Activities.--The program under this section shall 
include research, development, demonstration, and commercial 
application on--
            (1) natural gas and other petroleum resource exploration, 
        production and consumption, including technologies and 
        processes to improve well and pipeline integrity, improve 
        understanding of fluid flow and storage, reduce surface 
        footprints, and improve water management technologies in 
        conventional and unconventional resources;
            (2) alternative liquid transportation fuel activities, 
        including integration of biomass and natural gas for 
        transportation fuels production, cleaner fuels, renewable 
        liquid fuels other than ethanol, natural gas vehicles, and 
        other innovative fossil-based fuels;
            (3) energy system risk management, optimization, 
        resiliency, and integration;
            (4) hydraulic fracturing and shale petroleum, including the 
        establishment and continued operation of one or more Hydraulic 
        Fracturing Test Sites to address efficiency, safety, and 
        environmental sustainability of hydraulic fracturing and shale 
        petroleum technologies;
            (5) small producer technology challenges, including 
        improving well integrity and efficiency;
            (6) subsurface energy exploration and production, including 
        geothermal energy;
            (7) interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline and 
        distribution system integrity management; and
            (8) other domestic energy challenges as identified by the 
        Secretary or the program consortium and included in the annual 
        plan prepared under subsection (i).
    (c) Role of the Secretary.--The Secretary shall have ultimate 
responsibility for, and oversight of, all aspects of the program under 
this section. The Secretary may not assign any activities to the 
program consortium except as specifically authorized under this 
section.
    (d) Selection of the Program Consortium.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall select the program 
        consortium through an open, competitive process.
            (2) Requirement of section 501(c)(3) status.--The Secretary 
        shall not select a program consortium under this section unless 
        such consortium is an organization described in section 
        501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from 
        tax under such section 501(a) of such Code.
    (e) Role of the Program Consortium.--Upon approval of the 
Secretary, the program consortium shall--
            (1) administer the program, to the extent provided under 
        subsection (c);
            (2) issue research project solicitations;
            (3) make project awards to research performers;
            (4) disburse research funds awarded under this section to 
        research performers in accordance with the annual plan prepared 
        under subsection (i); and
            (5) carry out other activities assigned to the program 
        consortium or as provided in the annual plan.
    (f) Administrative Costs.--To compensate the program consortium for 
carrying out its activities under this section, the Secretary shall 
provide to the program consortium up to 10 percent of the total 
appropriation for carrying out this section each fiscal year.
    (g) Coordination.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary and 
the program consortium shall promote coordination and cooperation among 
program offices at the Department.
    (h) Complementary Research.--The Secretary, through the National 
Renewable Energy Laboratory and the National Energy Technology 
Laboratory, shall carry out research and other activities complementary 
to and supportive of the program authorized under this section. Up to 
12.5 percent of appropriated program funds each fiscal year shall be 
for complementary research conducted by the National Energy Technology 
Laboratory and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory.
    (i) Annual Plan.--
            (1) Development.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the program 
        consortium shall develop, and transmit to the Secretary, the 
        Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
        Representatives, and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate, a plan for activities under this 
        section, including the distribution of Program funds, which 
        shall be reviewed and approved within 60 days by the Secretary.
            (2) Contents.--The annual plan shall describe the ongoing 
        and prospective activities of the program under this section 
        and shall include a list of any solicitations for awards to 
        carry out research, development, demonstration, and commercial 
        application activities, including specifics on the topics for 
        such work, who would be eligible to apply, selection criteria, 
        and the duration of awards.
    (j) Awards.--
            (1) In general.--Upon approval of the Secretary, the 
        program consortium shall make awards to research performers to 
        carry out research, development, demonstration, and commercial 
        application activities under this section.
            (2) Oversight.--
                    (A) In general.--The program consortium shall 
                oversee the implementation of awards under this 
                subsection, consistent with the annual plan developed 
                under subsection (i), including disbursing funds and 
                monitoring activities carried out under such awards for 
                compliance with the terms and conditions of the awards.
                    (B) Effect.--Nothing in subparagraph (A) shall 
                limit the authority or responsibility of the Secretary 
                to oversee awards, or limit the authority of the 
                Secretary to review or revoke awards.
    (k) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary, to remain available until expended, for 
carrying out this section--
            (1) $50,000,000, to be derived from amounts appropriated 
        under section 291(c); and
            (2) $50,000,000, to be derived from amounts appropriated 
        under section 291(d).

SEC. 263. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, DEMONSTRATION, AND COMMERCIAL 
              APPLICATION PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Section 962 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
U.S.C. 16292) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (10), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (11), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(12) specific additional programs to address water use 
        and reuse;
            ``(13) the testing, including the construction of testing 
        facilities, of high temperature materials for use in advanced 
        systems for combustion or use of coal; and
            ``(14) innovations to application of existing coal 
        conversion systems designed to increase efficiency of 
        conversion, flexibility of operation, and other modifications 
        to address existing usage requirements.'';
            (2) by redesignating subsections (b) through (d) as 
        subsections (c) through (e), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Transformational Coal Technology Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--As part of the program established under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary may carry out a program designed 
        to undertake research, development, demonstration, and 
        commercial application of technologies, including the 
        accelerated development of--
                    ``(A) chemical looping technology;
                    ``(B) supercritical carbon dioxide power generation 
                cycles;
                    ``(C) pressurized oxycombustion, including new and 
                retrofit technologies; and
                    ``(D) other technologies that are characterized by 
                the use of--
                            ``(i) alternative energy cycles;
                            ``(ii) thermionic devices using waste heat;
                            ``(iii) fuel cells;
                            ``(iv) replacement of chemical processes 
                        with biotechnology;
                            ``(v) nanotechnology;
                            ``(vi) new materials in applications (other 
                        than extending cycles to higher temperature and 
                        pressure), such as membranes or ceramics;
                            ``(vii) carbon utilization, such as in 
                        construction materials, using low quality 
                        energy to reconvert back to a fuel, or 
                        manufactured food;
                            ``(viii) advanced gas separation concepts; 
                        and
                            ``(ix) other technologies, including--
                                    ``(I) modular, manufactured 
                                components; and
                                    ``(II) innovative production or 
                                research techniques, such as using 3-D 
                                printer systems, for the production of 
                                early research and development 
                                prototypes.
            ``(2) Cost share.--In carrying out the program described in 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall enter into partnerships with 
        private entities to share the costs of carrying out the 
        program. The Secretary may reduce or eliminate the non-Federal 
        cost share requirement if the Secretary determines that the 
        reduction or elimination is necessary and appropriate 
        considering the technological risks involved in the project.''; 
        and
            (4) in subsection (c) (as so redesignated)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(1) In general.--In carrying out programs authorized by 
        this section, the Secretary shall identify cost and performance 
        goals for coal-based technologies that would permit the 
        continued cost-competitive use of coal for the production of 
        electricity, chemical feedstocks, transportation fuels, and 
        other marketable products.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``date of 
                enactment of this Act'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``date of enactment of the ONE Future Act''.
    (b) Advisory Committee; Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 
963 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16293) is amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (6) of subsection (c) to read as 
        follows:
            ``(6) Advisory committee.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Secretary shall establish an advisory committee to 
                undertake, not less frequently than once every 3 years, 
                a review and prepare a report on the progress being 
                made by the Department of Energy to achieve the goals 
                described in subsections (a) and (b) of section 962 and 
                subsection (b) of this section.
                    ``(B) Membership requirements.--Members of the 
                advisory committee established under subparagraph (A) 
                shall be appointed by the Secretary.''; and
            (2) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
    ``(d) Study of Carbon Dioxide Pipelines.--Not later than 1 year 
after the date of enactment of the ONE Future Act, the Secretary shall 
transmit to Congress the results of a study to assess the cost and 
feasibility of engineering, permitting, building, maintaining, 
regulating, and insuring a national system of carbon dioxide 
pipelines.''.

SEC. 264. HIGH EFFICIENCY GAS TURBINES RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, through the Office of Fossil 
Energy, shall carry out a multiyear, multiphase program of research, 
development, demonstration, and commercial application to innovate 
technologies to maximize the efficiency of gas turbines used in power 
generation systems.
    (b) Program Elements.--The program under this section shall--
            (1) support innovative engineering and detailed gas turbine 
        design for megawatt-scale and utility-scale electric power 
        generation, including--
                    (A) high temperature materials, including 
                superalloys, coatings, and ceramics;
                    (B) improved heat transfer capability;
                    (C) manufacturing technology required to construct 
                complex three-dimensional geometry parts with improved 
                aerodynamic capability;
                    (D) combustion technology to produce higher firing 
                temperature while lowering nitrogen oxide and carbon 
                monoxide emissions per unit of output;
                    (E) advanced controls and systems integration;
                    (F) advanced high performance compressor 
                technology; and
                    (G) validation facilities for the testing of 
                components and subsystems;
            (2) include technology demonstration through component 
        testing, subscale testing, and full scale testing in existing 
        fleets;
            (3) include field demonstrations of the developed 
        technology elements so as to demonstrate technical and economic 
        feasibility; and
            (4) assess overall combined cycle and simple cycle system 
        performance.
    (c) Program Goals.--The goals of the multiphase program established 
under subsection (a) shall be--
            (1) in phase I--
                    (A) to develop the conceptual design of advanced 
                high efficiency gas turbines that can achieve at least 
                62 percent combined cycle efficiency or 47 percent 
                simple cycle efficiency on a lower heating value basis; 
                and
                    (B) to develop and demonstrate the technology 
                required for advanced high efficiency gas turbines that 
                can achieve at least 62 percent combined cycle 
                efficiency or 47 percent simple cycle efficiency on a 
                lower heating value basis; and
            (2) in phase II, to develop the conceptual design for 
        advanced high efficiency gas turbines that can achieve at least 
        65 percent combined cycle efficiency or 50 percent simple cycle 
        efficiency on a lower heating value basis.
    (d) Proposals.--Within 180 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary shall solicit grant and contract proposals from 
industry, small businesses, universities, and other appropriate parties 
for conducting activities under this section. In selecting proposals, 
the Secretary shall emphasize--
            (1) the extent to which the proposal will stimulate the 
        creation or increased retention of jobs in the United States; 
        and
            (2) the extent to which the proposal will promote and 
        enhance United States technology leadership.
    (e) Competitive Awards.--The provision of funding under this 
section shall be on a competitive basis with an emphasis on technical 
merit.
    (f) Cost Sharing.--Section 988 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 
U.S.C. 16352) shall apply to an award of financial assistance made 
under this section.

          Subtitle E--Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy

SEC. 281. ARPA-E AMENDMENTS.

    Section 5012 of the America COMPETES Act (42 U.S.C. 16538) is 
amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (1) of subsection (c) to read as 
        follows:
            ``(1) In general.--The goals of ARPA-E shall be to enhance 
        the economic and energy security of the United States and to 
        ensure that the United States maintains a technological lead 
        through the development of advanced energy technologies.'';
            (2) in subsection (i)(1), by inserting ``ARPA-E shall not 
        provide funding for a project unless the prospective grantee 
        demonstrates sufficient attempts to secure private financing as 
        to indicate that the project is not independently commercially 
        viable.'' after ``relevant research agencies.'';
            (3) in subsection (l)(1), by inserting ``and once every 6 
        years thereafter,'' after ``operation for 6 years,''; and
            (4) by redesignating subsection (n) as subsection (o) and 
        inserting after subsection (m) the following new subsection:
    ``(n) Protection of Proprietary Information.--
            ``(1) In general.--The following categories of information 
        collected by the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy from 
        recipients of financial assistance awards shall be considered 
        privileged and confidential and not subject to disclosure 
        pursuant to section 552 of title 5, United States Code:
                    ``(A) Plans for commercialization of technologies 
                developed under the award, including business plans, 
                technology to market plans, market studies, and cost 
                and performance models.
                    ``(B) Investments provided to an awardee from third 
                parties, such as venture capital, hedge fund, or 
                private equity firms, including amounts and percentage 
                of ownership of the awardee provided in return for such 
                investments.
                    ``(C) Additional financial support that the awardee 
                plans to invest or has invested into the technology 
                developed under the award, or that the awardee is 
                seeking from third parties.
                    ``(D) Revenue from the licensing or sale of new 
                products or services resulting from the research 
                conducted under the award.
            ``(2) Effect of subsection.--Nothing in this subsection 
        affects--
                    ``(A) the authority of the Secretary to use 
                information without publicly disclosing such 
                information; or
                    ``(B) the responsibility of the Secretary to 
                transmit information to Congress as required by law.''.

                       Subtitle F--Miscellaneous

SEC. 291. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Crosscutting Programs.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
to the Secretary for--
            (1) research, development, demonstration, and commercial 
        application for Electrical Delivery and Energy Reliability 
        Research and Development activities within the Office of 
        Electricity, $105,700,000 for fiscal year 2014; and
            (2) research, development, demonstration, and commercial 
        application for crosscutting programs within the Department 
        $145,700,000 for fiscal year 2015, including up to $105,700,000 
        for Electrical Delivery and Energy Reliability Research and 
        Development activities within the Office of Electricity.
    (b) Nuclear Energy.--
            (1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated to 
        the Secretary for research, development, demonstration, and 
        commercial application for nuclear energy technology activities 
        within the Office of Nuclear Energy $488,630,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 2014 and 2015.
            (2) Limitation.--Any amounts made available pursuant to the 
        authorization of appropriations under paragraph (1) shall not 
        be derived from the Nuclear Waste Fund established under 
        section 302(c) of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (42 
        U.S.C. 10222(c)).
    (c) Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy.--There are authorized 
to be appropriated to the Secretary for research, development, 
demonstration, and commercial application for energy efficiency and 
renewable energy technology activities within the Office of Energy 
Efficiency and Renewable Energy--
            (1) $1,683,486,000 for fiscal year 2014; and
            (2) $1,197,631,000 for fiscal year 2015.
    (d) Fossil Energy.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary for research, development, demonstration, and commercial 
application for fossil energy technology activities within the Office 
of Fossil Energy $561,931,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 and 2015.
    (e) ARPA-E.--There are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary for the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy--
            (1) $280,000,000 for fiscal year 2014; and
            (2) $240,000,000 for fiscal year 2015.

SEC. 292. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title--
            (1) the term ``Department'' means the Department of Energy; 
        and
            (2) the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Energy.
                                 <all>
