
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 715 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 715

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     September 9, 2014.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 5078) to preserve existing rights and responsibilities with respect 
to waters of the United States, and for other purposes. The first reading of the 
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not 
exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure. After general 
debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. 
The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill are waived. No amendment to the bill shall be in order except those 
printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. 
Each such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may 
be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as 
read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided 
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in 
the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such 
amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for 
amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such 
amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without 
intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the resolution (H. 
Res. 644) condemning and disapproving of the Obama administration's failure to 
comply with the lawful statutory requirement to notify Congress before releasing 
individuals detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and 
expressing national security concerns over the release of five Taliban leaders 
and the repercussions of negotiating with terrorists. The amendments to the 
resolution and the preamble recommended by the Committee on Armed Services now 
printed in the resolution shall be considered as adopted. The resolution, as 
amended, shall be considered as read. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the resolution and preamble, as amended, to adoption without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed Services; and 
(2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
