
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 710 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 710

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        August 1, 2014.
    Resolved, That during further consideration of the bill (H.R. 5230) making 
supplemental appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2014, and 
for other purposes, pursuant to House Resolution 696:
     (a) the amendments printed in part A of the report of the Committee on 
Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted;
    (b) all points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are 
waived; and
    (c) the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and on any further amendment thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except (1) one additional hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Appropriations and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  After passage of H.R. 5230, and on the legislative day of August 1, 
2014, the House shall consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5272) to prohibit 
certain actions with respect to deferred action for aliens not lawfully present 
in the United States, and for other purposes. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment printed in part B of the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be 
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on 
any further amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary; and (2) one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  Section 2 of House Resolution 700 is amended to read as follows: 
``Sec. 2. It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of August 1, 
2014, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules, as 
though under clause 1 of rule XV, relating to a measure addressing missile 
defense of Israel.''.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
