
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 676 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 676

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 30, 2014.
    Resolved, That the Speaker is authorized to initiate or intervene in one or 
more civil actions on behalf of the House of Representatives in a Federal court 
of competent jurisdiction to seek any appropriate relief regarding the failure 
of the President, the head of any department or agency, or any other officer or 
employee of the executive branch, to act in a manner consistent with that 
official's duties under the Constitution and laws of the United States with 
respect to implementation of any provision of the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act, title I or subtitle B of title II of the Health Care and 
Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, including any amendment made by such 
provision, or any other related provision of law, including a failure to 
implement any such provision.
    Sec. 2.  The Speaker shall notify the House of Representatives of a decision 
to initiate or intervene in any civil action pursuant to this resolution.
    Sec. 3. (a) The Office of the General Counsel of the House of 
Representatives, at the direction of the Speaker, shall represent the House in 
any civil action initiated, or in which the House intervenes, pursuant to this 
resolution, and may employ the services of outside counsel and other experts for 
this purpose.
    (b) The chair of the Committee on House Administration shall cause to be 
printed in the Congressional Record a statement setting forth the aggregate 
amounts expended by the Office of General Counsel on outside counsel and other 
experts pursuant to subsection (a) on a quarterly basis. Such statement shall be 
submitted for printing not more than 30 days after the expiration of each such 
period.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
