
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1317 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1317

    To authorize the programs of the National Aeronautics and Space 
    Administration for fiscal years 2014 through 2016 and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 17, 2013

 Mr. Nelson (for himself and Mr. Rockefeller) introduced the following 
 bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Commerce, 
                      Science, and Transportation

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To authorize the programs of the National Aeronautics and Space 
    Administration for fiscal years 2014 through 2016 and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2013''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
                TITLE I--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

Sec. 101. Fiscal year 2014.
Sec. 102. Fiscal year 2015.
Sec. 103. Fiscal year 2016.
        TITLE II--HUMAN SPACE FLIGHT EXPLORATION AND OPERATIONS

                        Subtitle A--Exploration

Sec. 201. Missions and destinations.
Sec. 202. NASA processing and launch infrastructure.
Sec. 203. Naming of the space launch system.
Sec. 204. Report; space suit system.
                 Subtitle B--Maximizing ISS Utilization

Sec. 221. Operation and utilization of the ISS.
Sec. 222. Research roles and responsibilities.
Sec. 223. ISS national laboratory; property rights in inventions.
Sec. 224. Commercial cargo and crew capabilities.
                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 231. Safety and mission assurance in human space flight.
Sec. 232. Launch liability provisions.
                           TITLE III--SCIENCE

                       Subtitle A--Earth Science

Sec. 301. Earth science.
                       Subtitle B--Space Science

Sec. 321. Human exploration and science collaboration.
Sec. 322. Maintaining a balanced space science portfolio.
Sec. 323. Science mission extensions.
Sec. 324. Planetary science.
Sec. 325. Space weather.
Sec. 326. James Webb space telescope.
Sec. 327. University class science missions.
                         TITLE IV--AERONAUTICS

Sec. 401. Sense of Congress on NASA aeronautics.
                       TITLE V--SPACE TECHNOLOGY

Sec. 501. Space technology.
                          TITLE VI--EDUCATION

Sec. 601. Education and outreach activities.
                        TITLE VII--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 701. Sense of Congress on NASA's cross agency support.
Sec. 702. Space communications network.
Sec. 703. Astronaut occupational healthcare.
Sec. 704. Helium capture and recovery.
Sec. 705. Information technology governance.
Sec. 706. Improvements to baselines and cost controls breach reporting 
                            process.
Sec. 707. Infrastructure.
Sec. 708. Knowledge management.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) A robust and balanced space program enhances the United 
        States long-term national and economic security by--
                    (A) stimulating development of advanced 
                technologies with widespread applications;
                    (B) increasing the United States technological 
                competitiveness;
                    (C) enhancing global prosperity and security 
                through cooperation in shared interests, such as 
                advancement of science, understanding of Earth and the 
                universe, and protection from space borne threats, such 
                as asteroids;
                    (D) opening the solar system to the full range of 
                peaceful human activity; and
                    (E) inspiring students to pursue disciplines in 
                science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
            (2) The Nation's space program should include--
                    (A) national security and civil space activities;
                    (B) robotic and human exploration;
                    (C) advancement of scientific knowledge and 
                engagement of the general public;
                    (D) U.S. Government led launch capability 
                development, including the Space Launch System and the 
                Orion multi-purpose crew vehicle, and partnerships with 
                commercial and international entities;
                    (E) advancement of the space frontier and 
                stimulation of commerce; and
                    (F) searching outward to further our understanding 
                of the universe and observing Earth to expand knowledge 
                of our home planet.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administration.--The term ``Administration'' means the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
            (2) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
        Administration.
            (3) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
                of the House of Representatives.
            (4) ISS.--The term ``ISS'' means the International Space 
        Station.
            (5) NASA.--The term ``NASA'' means the National Aeronautics 
        and Space Administration.
            (6) Orion.--The term ``Orion'' means the multi-purpose crew 
        vehicle described under section 303 of the National Aeronautics 
        and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 
        18323).
            (7) Space launch system.--The term ``Space Launch System'' 
        has the meaning given the term under section 3 of the National 
        Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 
        (42 U.S.C. 18302).

                TITLE I--AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS

SEC. 101. FISCAL YEAR 2014.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to NASA for fiscal year 
2014, $18,100,000,000, as follows:
            (1) For Exploration, $4,275,000,000, of which--
                    (A) $1,600,000,000 shall be for Space Launch 
                System;
                    (B) $1,200,000,000 shall be for the Orion multi-
                purpose crew vehicle;
                    (C) $350,000,000 shall be for Exploration Ground 
                Systems;
                    (D) $325,000,000 shall be for Exploration Research 
                and Development; and
                    (E) $800,000,000 shall be for Commercial Space 
                Flight.
            (2) For Space Operations, $3,832,000,000, of which--
                    (A) $3,000,000,000 shall be for the ISS program; 
                and
                    (B) $832,000,000 for Space and Flight Support.
            (3) For Science, $5,154,000,000, of which--
                    (A) $1,800,000,000 shall be for Earth Sciences;
                    (B) $1,400,000,000 shall be for Planetary Science;
                    (C) $642,000,000 shall be for Astrophysics;
                    (D) $658,000,000 shall be for the James Webb Space 
                Telescope; and
                    (E) $654,000,000 shall be for Heliophysics.
            (4) For Aeronautics, $570,000,000.
            (5) For Space Technology, $635,000,000.
            (6) For Education, $136,000,000.
            (7) For Cross-Agency Support Programs, $2,850,000,000.
            (8) For Construction and Environmental Compliance and 
        Restoration, $610,000,000.
            (9) For Inspector General, $38,000,000.

SEC. 102. FISCAL YEAR 2015.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to NASA for fiscal year 
2015, $18,462,000,000, as follows
            (1) For Exploration, $4,522,000,000, of which--
                    (A) $1,725,000,000 shall be for Space Launch 
                System;
                    (B) $1,225,000,000 shall be for the Orion multi-
                purpose crew vehicle;
                    (C) $425,000,000 shall be for Exploration Ground 
                Systems;
                    (D) $332,000,000 shall be for Exploration Research 
                and Development; and
                    (E) $815,000,000 shall be for Commercial Space 
                Flight.
            (2) For Space Operations, $3,948,000,000, of which--
                    (A) $3,103,000,000 shall be for the ISS program; 
                and
                    (B) $845,000,000 for Space and Flight Support.
            (3) For Science, $5,234,400,000, of which--
                    (A) $1,836,000,000 shall be for Earth Sciences;
                    (B) $1,450,000,000 shall be for Planetary Science;
                    (C) $670,000,000 shall be for Astrophysics;
                    (D) $645,400,000 shall be for the James Webb Space 
                Telescope; and
                    (E) $633,000,000 shall be for Heliophysics.
            (4) For Aeronautics, $581,000,000.
            (5) For Space Technology, $650,000,000.
            (6) For Education, $139,800,000.
            (7) For Cross-Agency Support Programs, $2,907,000,000.
            (8) For Construction and Environmental Compliance and 
        Restoration, $441,000,000.
            (9) For Inspector General, $38,800,000.

SEC. 103. FISCAL YEAR 2016.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to NASA for fiscal year 
2016, $18,831,000,000, as follows:
            (1) For Exploration, $4,660,000,000, of which--
                    (A) $1,800,000,000 shall be for Space Launch 
                System;
                    (B) $1,250,000,000 shall be for the Orion multi-
                purpose crew vehicle;
                    (C) $435,000,000 shall be for Exploration Ground 
                Systems;
                    (D) $350,000,000 shall be for Exploration Research 
                and Development; and
                    (E) $825,000,000 shall be for Commercial Space 
                Flight.
            (2) For Space Operations, $4,010,000,000, of which--
                    (A) $3,196,000,000 shall be for the ISS program; 
                and
                    (B) $814,000,000 for Space and Flight Support.
            (3) For Science, $5,315,800,000, of which--
                    (A) $1,872,000,000 shall be for Earth Sciences;
                    (B) $1,500,000,000 shall be for Planetary Science;
                    (C) $686,800,000 shall be for Astrophysics;
                    (D) $620,000,000 shall be for the James Webb Space 
                Telescope; and
                    (E) $637,000,000 shall be for Heliophysics.
            (4) For Aeronautics, $593,000,000.
            (5) For Space Technology, $665,000,000.
            (6) For Education, $142,000,000.
            (7) For Cross-Agency Support Programs, $2,965,000,000.
            (8) For Construction and Environmental Compliance and 
        Restoration, $441,000,000.
            (9) For Inspector General, $39,200,000.

        TITLE II--HUMAN SPACE FLIGHT EXPLORATION AND OPERATIONS

                        Subtitle A--Exploration

SEC. 201. MISSIONS AND DESTINATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Congress reaffirms that the long-term goal of the 
human space flight and exploration efforts of NASA shall be to expand 
permanent human presence beyond low-Earth orbit and to do so, where 
practical, in a manner involving international partners, as stated in 
section 202(a) of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18312(a)).
    (b) Human Exploration of Mars.--Section 202(b) of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 
U.S.C. 18312(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (3);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) to achieve human exploration of Mars, including the 
        establishment of a capability for human habitation on the 
        surface of Mars.''.
    (c) Development of Exploration Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and biennially thereafter, the 
        Administrator shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress a strategy to achieve the objective under section 
        202(b)(5) of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
        Authorization Act of 2010, as amended (42 U.S.C. 18312(b)(5)) 
        through a series of successive, free-standing, but 
        complementary missions making robust utilization of cis-lunar 
        space and employing the Space Launch System, Orion, and other 
        capabilities provided under titles III, IV, V, and IX of that 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 18301 et seq.).
            (2) Strategy requirements.--In developing the strategy 
        under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall include--
                    (A) the utility of an expanded human presence in 
                cis-lunar space toward enabling missions to various 
                lunar orbits, the lunar surface, asteroids, the Mars 
                system, and other destinations of interest for future 
                human exploration and development;
                    (B) the utility of an expanded human presence in 
                cis-lunar space for economic, scientific, and 
                technological advances;
                    (C) the opportunities for collaboration with--
                            (i) international partners;
                            (ii) private industry; and
                            (iii) other Federal agencies, including 
                        missions relevant to national security or 
                        scientific needs;
                    (D) the opportunities specifically afforded by the 
                ISS to support high priority scientific and 
                technological developments useful in expanding and 
                sustaining a human presence in cis-lunar space and 
                beyond;
                    (E) a range of exploration mission architectures 
                and approaches for the missions identified under 
                paragraph (1); and
                    (F) standards for ensuring crew health and safety, 
                including limits regarding radiation exposure and 
                countermeasures necessary to meet those limits, means 
                and methods for addressing urgent medical conditions or 
                injuries, and other such safety, health, and medical 
                issues that can be anticipated in the conduct of the 
                missions identified under paragraph (1).
            (3) Comparison of mission architectures and approaches.--
                    (A) In general.--The strategy shall include a 
                comparison of mission architectures and approaches 
                identified under paragraph (2)(E) with a primary 
                objective of identifying the architectures and 
                approaches that--
                            (i) best support the long-term goal under 
                        section 202(a) of the National Aeronautics and 
                        Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 
                        (42 U.S.C. 18312(a)); and
                            (ii) are enabled by the Space Launch 
                        System, Orion, and other transportation 
                        capabilities and technologies provided under 
                        titles III, IV, V, and IX of the National 
                        Aeronautics and Space Administration 
                        Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18301 et 
                        seq.) and by other capabilities that may be 
                        available commercially or internationally.
                    (B) Factors.--The comparison of mission 
                architectures and approaches under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include options that assess cost, schedule, 
                safety, sustainability, opportunities for international 
                collaboration, the enabling of new markets and 
                opportunities for U.S. private industry, compelling 
                scientific opportunities or national security 
                considerations and requirements, the flexibility of the 
                architecture to adjust to evolving technologies, 
                leadership, and priorities, and contributions made to 
                U.S. technological excellence, competitiveness, and 
                leadership.
                    (C) National security collaboration.--In 
                identifying opportunities for collaboration under 
                paragraph (2)(C)(iii), the Administrator, in 
                collaboration with the Secretary of Defense and 
                Director of National Intelligence, shall include a 
                discussion of the work, cost, and schedule required to 
                enable and utilize a cargo variant of the Space Launch 
                System, including the 70-, 105-, and 130-metric ton 
                configurations, with both a 5-meter or 8-meter faring.
            (4) Additional requirements.--The strategy shall include--
                    (A) technical information as needed to identify 
                interest from the scientific and national security 
                communities; and
                    (B) an assessment of the Space Launch System to 
                enable and sustain near-Earth object surveillance of 
                potentially Earth-threatening objects for the purpose 
                of planetary protection.

SEC. 202. NASA PROCESSING AND LAUNCH INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Policy.--It is the policy of the United States that the 
Exploration Ground Systems to process and launch the Space Launch 
System, Orion, and related exploration elements, and the 21st Century 
Space Launch Complex to enable and facilitate civil, defense, and 
private launches are complementary efforts to modernize infrastructure, 
reduce costs, and maintain capabilities for current and future 
missions.
    (b) Development of the Processing and Launch Support 
Infrastructure.--In executing the programs described under subsection 
(a), the Administrator, to the extent practicable--
            (1) may not exclude the ability of Exploration Ground 
        Systems to support efforts under section 305(b) of the National 
        Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 
        (42 U.S.C. 18325(b));
            (2) shall allow for cost-sharing opportunities by providing 
        multi-use systems and capabilities to current and future users 
        of the 21st Century Space Launch Complex through modernization, 
        refurbishment, or development of infrastructure; and
            (3) shall pursue, in collaboration with local, State, or 
        Federal agencies, or private industry, capabilities and 
        investments that support multiple entities to advance NASA's 
        current and future missions and benefit NASA by creating new 
        partnerships.

SEC. 203. NAMING OF THE SPACE LAUNCH SYSTEM.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that education and outreach to 
encourage the next generation of scientists and engineers to become 
involved in science and space exploration is one of the 
Administration's most important missions.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Administration shall submit to the appropriate committees 
of Congress a plan to engage the public, including science students in 
elementary and secondary education programs, throughout the United 
States in naming the Space Launch System.

SEC. 204. REPORT; SPACE SUIT SYSTEM.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Administration shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
report updating Congress on the Constellation Space Suit System. The 
report shall include justification as to whether another competition to 
award contracts for the design, development, certification, production, 
and sustaining engineering of this space suit system is required to 
meet the needs of NASA's human exploration program.

                 Subtitle B--Maximizing ISS Utilization

SEC. 221. OPERATION AND UTILIZATION OF THE ISS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) maximum utilization of partnerships, scientific 
        research, commercial applications, and exploration test bed 
        capabilities of the ISS is essential to ensuring the greatest 
        return on investments made by the United States and its 
        international partners in the development, assembly, and 
        operations of that unique facility; and
            (2) every effort should be made to ensure that decisions 
        regarding the service life of the ISS are made on the basis of 
        its projected capability to continue providing effective and 
        productive research and exploration test bed capabilities.
    (b) Continuation of the International Space Station.--Congress 
reaffirms the policy stated in section 501(a) of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 
U.S.C. 18351(a)) that it shall be the policy of the United States, in 
consultation with its international partners in the ISS program, to 
support full and complete utilization of the ISS through at least 2020.
    (c) NASA Actions.--In furtherance of the policy under subsection 
(b), the Administrator shall ensure, to the extent practicable, that 
the ISS, as a designated national laboratory--
            (1) remains viable as an element of overall exploration and 
        partnership strategies and approaches; and
            (2) remains an effective, functional vehicle providing 
        research and test bed capabilities for the United States 
        through 2020, up to 2028, and possibly beyond.
    (d) Report.--The Administrator, in consultation with the Office of 
Science and Technology Policy, shall determine, through analyses and 
discussions with ISS partners, the feasible and preferred service life 
of the ISS as a unique scientific, commercial, and exploration-related 
facility. Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this 
Act, and triennially thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report that, at a minimum, 
includes--
            (1) an assessment of whether ISS operations can be extended 
        to at least 2028, including--
                    (A) a description of any activities that would be 
                required of the international partnership to ensure 
                that safety requirements are met;
                    (B) a general discussion of international partner 
                capabilities and interest in extension, to include the 
                potential for participation by additional countries;
                    (C) a review of essential systems or equipment 
                upgrades that would be necessary for ISS extension and 
                utilization to at least 2028;
                    (D) an evaluation of the cost and schedule 
                requirements associated with the development and 
                delivery of essential systems or equipment upgrades 
                identified under subparagraph (C); and
                    (E) an identification of possible partner 
                contributions and program transitions to provide the 
                upgrades identified under subparagraph (C);
            (2) an evaluation of the potential for expanding the use of 
        ISS facilities to accommodate the needs of researchers and 
        other users, including changes to policies, regulations, and 
        laws that would stimulate greater private and public 
        involvement on the ISS; and
            (3) such other information as may be necessary to fully 
        describe the justification for and feasibility of extending the 
        service life of the ISS, including the potential scientific or 
        technological benefits to the Federal Government or public, or 
        to academic or commercial entities that, within the United 
        States-owned modules of the ISS or in partner-owned facilities 
        of the ISS allocated for United States utilization by 
        international agreement, are or may become engaged in research 
        and testing activities sponsored, conducted, and managed by the 
        Administration or by the ISS management entity.
    (e) Definition of ISS Management Entity.--In this section, the term 
``ISS management entity'' means the organization with which the 
Administrator enters into a cooperative agreement under section 504(a) 
of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act 
of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18354(a)).

SEC. 222. RESEARCH ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) expansion of the non-NASA utilization of the ISS is 
        critical to maximizing the research potential of the ISS 
        national laboratory and to facilitating expanded commercial 
        activity in low-Earth orbit; and
            (2) in order to expand the non-NASA scientific utilization 
        of ISS research capabilities and facilities, it is essential to 
        clarify the roles and responsibilities of the entities managing 
        research within the U.S. Segment of the ISS.
    (b) Management of the ISS National Laboratory.--Section 504 of the 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 
(42 U.S.C. 18354) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Conflicts of interest.--The Administrator shall 
        ensure that the liaison function under this subsection is 
        implemented in a manner that precludes any conflict of interest 
        between the objectives and activities of the entities 
        identified under subsection (e).'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(2)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(A) In general.--'' before ``If 
                any NASA research plan'' and adjusting the text 
                accordingly;
                    (B) by inserting ``and subject to subparagraph 
                (B)'' after ``Until September 30, 2020'' in 
                subparagraph (A), as redesignated; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Mutual agreement.--An exception under 
                subparagraph (A) may only be granted if there is mutual 
                agreement between the entities identified under 
                subsection (e).''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Clarification of Roles.--The organization with which the 
Administrator enters into a cooperative agreement under subsection (a) 
for management of the ISS national laboratory shall be considered a 
separate and equal partner of any NASA organizational entity 
responsible for management of the NASA research plan onboard the 
ISS.''.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report on the following:
                    (A) Options for expanding the Administration's 
                collaboration with its ISS partners, including--
                            (i) providing U.S. personnel expanded 
                        access to international partner research 
                        facilities; and
                            (ii) coordinating research efforts to 
                        minimize the duplication of effort, unless 
                        duplication is a justified element of the 
                        scientific process or essential for backup or 
                        redundant capability.
                    (B) The potential for increasing ISS crew size to 
                maximize utilization and applications.
                    (C) Efforts undertaken by the Administration and 
                the ISS management entity--
                            (i) to enhance collaborative research 
                        between the Administration and other Federal 
                        science agencies, such as the National 
                        Institutes of Health and the National Science 
                        Foundation; and
                            (ii) to expand the use of the ISS national 
                        laboratory capabilities by Federal science 
                        agencies.
            (2) Definition of iss management entity.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``ISS management entity'' means the 
        organization with which the Administrator enters into a 
        cooperative agreement under section 504(a) of the National 
        Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 
        (42 U.S.C. 18354(a)).

SEC. 223. ISS NATIONAL LABORATORY; PROPERTY RIGHTS IN INVENTIONS.

    Section 20135 of title 51, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (g), by striking ``Each such waiver'' and 
        inserting ``Except as provided under subsection (l), each such 
        waiver''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(l) Waiver of Rights to Inventions; Commercial Microgravity 
Research.--
            ``(1) In general.--With respect to any invention or class 
        of inventions made or which may be made by any person or class 
        of persons in the performance of any non-NASA scientific 
        utilization of the ISS national laboratory, the Administrator 
        may waive the license reserved by the Administrator under 
        subsection (g), in whole or in part and according to negotiated 
        terms and conditions, including the terms and conditions under 
        paragraphs (1), (2), (3), and (5) of section 202(c) of title 
        35, if the Administrator finds that the reservation of the 
        license by the Administrator would substantially inhibit the 
        commercialization of an invention.
            ``(2) Construction.--Nothing in this subsection shall be 
        construed to affect the rights of the Federal Government under 
        any other procurement contract, grant, understanding, 
        arrangement, agreement, or transaction.''.

SEC. 224. COMMERCIAL CARGO AND CREW CAPABILITIES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) NASA's Commercial Orbital Transportation Services, 
        Cargo Resupply Services, and Commercial Crew Program 
        demonstrate the potential for procuring routine, commercially 
        provided access to the ISS and to low-Earth orbit using 
        innovative and cost-effective development and procurement 
        strategies;
            (2) Federal investments in the U.S. private space industry 
        have the ability to provide for lower cost access to space for 
        researchers and for commercial ventures;
            (3) commercially provided space transportation is critical 
        to maximizing utilization of the ISS;
            (4) encouraging competition among launch service providers 
        and maintaining multiple space transportation options helps to 
        reduce long-term costs to the Federal Government and to induce 
        continual improvement in available private-sector services; and
            (5) consistent with section 201(b) of the National 
        Aeronautics and Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 
        (42 U.S.C. 18311(b)), maintaining multiple launch service 
        providers helps ensure uninterrupted access to the space 
        environment should a particular provider's services become 
        unavailable.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Administration--
            (1) should continue to support the development of safe, 
        reliable, and cost effective commercial launch capabilities for 
        the primary purpose of securing domestic access to the ISS as 
        quickly and safely as possible; and
            (2) should encourage a viable commercial market for the 
        capabilities under paragraph (1).
    (c) United States Policy.--It is the policy of the United States 
that, to foster the competitive development, operation, and improvement 
of private space transportation services, services for Federal 
Government access to and return from the ISS, whenever feasible, shall 
be procured via fair and open competition for well-defined, milestone-
based, Federal Acquisition Regulation-based contracts under section 
201(a) of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18311(a)).
    (d) Selection of Commercial Providers.--In evaluating commercial 
space transportation service providers, the Administrator--
            (1) shall aim to minimize the life-cycle costs of obtaining 
        transportation services;
            (2) shall assure compliance with all safety and mission 
        assurance requirements;
            (3) shall consider contractor financial investment into the 
        development of transportation capabilities; and
            (4) for commercial crew transport services--
                    (A) shall consider flexibility in design, including 
                sample return capabilities; and
                    (B) shall provide a written notification and 
                justification to the appropriate committees of Congress 
                if the price per seat exceeds the cost negotiated by 
                NASA for crew transport in April 2013.
            (5) Strategy for procuring commercial services.--In 
        implementing the policy under subsection (c), the Administrator 
        shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, not 
        later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, a 
        strategy for transitioning from Space Act Agreements to Federal 
        Acquisition Regulation-based contracts for the procurement of 
        crew transportation services to and from the ISS. The strategy 
        shall include--
                    (A) a comparison of potential procurement 
                strategies based on--
                            (i) maximizing safety and mission 
                        assurance;
                            (ii) the total projected costs to the 
                        Federal Government through 2020, given multiple 
                        projections of Government demand for launch 
                        services;
                            (iii) the feasibility of the procurement 
                        strategy and timeline, given projected funding 
                        availabilities;
                            (iv) the potential for supporting the 
                        research and exploration test bed needs of the 
                        Federal Government and of the independent 
                        entity responsible for ISS national laboratory 
                        activities for the purposes described under 
                        section 504(d) of the National Aeronautics and 
                        Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 
                        (42 U.S.C. 18354(d)); and
                            (v) the projected impacts on developing a 
                        viable market for commercial launch services;
                    (B) an evaluation of the costs and benefits of 
                ensuring the availability of at least 2 U.S.-based 
                launch service providers, considering--
                            (i) the potential need for diversified 
                        cargo and sample return capabilities, including 
                        a soft-landing capability as described under 
                        section 404 of the National Aeronautics and 
                        Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 
                        (124 Stat. 2822); and
                            (ii) the ability of multiple cargo or crew 
                        launch service providers to meet private or 
                        non-NASA Government mission requirements and 
                        the subsequent benefit to the United States of 
                        such ability;
                    (C) justification for the procurement strategy 
                selected from among those considered; and
                    (D) for the selected procurement strategy, 
                identification of additional or modified authorities, 
                regulations, or guidelines that are necessary for 
                successful implementation.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 231. SAFETY AND MISSION ASSURANCE IN HUMAN SPACE FLIGHT.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) In the early part of the space race, the United States 
        took over 3 years from the launch of the first American 
        satellite, Explorer I, to the launch of the first American to 
        space, Alan B. Shepard, Jr.
            (2) It was known then, as it is now, that the exploration 
        of space by humans is an inherently dangerous endeavor.
            (3) Access to space requires complex propulsion systems, 
        such as the now retired Space Shuttle, which generated over 
        7,000,000 pounds of thrust.
            (4) Adding humans to the complex systems required to reach 
        space requires additional safeguards, life support systems, and 
        other measures to protect from the harsh environment of space 
        in order to minimize risk to human life.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) meticulousness and attention to detail helps ensure 
        that all humans are safe and protected to the best of the 
        abilities of all those involved in helping achieve the reaches 
        of space;
            (2) those who strive to send humans into space should make 
        every effort to ensure the success of missions and programs 
        through independent safety and mission assurance analyses;
            (3) diligent oversight efforts ensure adherence to safety, 
        reliability, and quality assurance policies and procedures for 
        missions and programs; and
            (4) lessons learned from mishaps and near misses should be 
        implemented into designs, decisions, policy, and procedures to 
        reduce the risk of future incidents that could jeopardize crew 
        safety or mission success.

SEC. 232. LAUNCH LIABILITY PROVISIONS.

    (a) Liability Extension.--Section 50915(f) of title 51, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 2013'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2016''.
    (b) Protection for Launch Activities.--Subchapter III of chapter 
201 of title 51, United States Code is amended by inserting after 
section 20147 the following:
``Sec. 20148. Indemnification; NASA launch services
    ``(a) In General.--Under such regulations in conformity with this 
section as the Administrator shall prescribe taking into account the 
availability, cost, and terms of liability insurance, any contract 
between the Administration and a provider may provide that the United 
States will indemnify a provider against claims (including reasonable 
expenses of litigation or settlement) by third parties for death, 
bodily injury, or loss of or damage to property resulting from 
activities that the contract defines as unusually hazardous or nuclear 
in nature, but--
            ``(1) only to the extent that such claims are not 
        compensated by liability insurance of the provider; and
            ``(2) only to the extent that such claims arise out of the 
        direct performance of the contract.
    ``(b) Limitation.--Indemnification under subsection (a) may be 
limited to claims resulting from other than the actual negligence or 
willful misconduct of the provider.
    ``(c) Terms of Indemnification.--A contract made under subsection 
(a) that provides indemnification shall also provide for--
            ``(1) notice to the United States of any claim or suit 
        against the provider for death, bodily injury, or loss of or 
        damage to property; and
            ``(2) control of or assistance in the defense by the United 
        States, at its election, of that suit or claim.
    ``(d) Liability Insurance of the Provider.--Each provider that is a 
party to a contract made under subsection (a) shall have and maintain 
liability insurance in such amounts as the Administrator shall require 
to cover liability to third parties and loss of or damage to property.
    ``(e) No Indemnification Without Cross-Waiver.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a), the Administrator may not indemnify a provider under 
this section unless there is a cross-waiver between the Administration 
and the provider as described in subsection (f).
    ``(f) Cross-Waivers.--The Administrator, on behalf of the United 
States, and its departments, agencies, and instrumentalities, may 
reciprocally waive claims with a provider under which each party to the 
waiver agrees to be responsible, and agrees to ensure that its own 
related entities are responsible, for damage or loss to its property 
for which it is responsible, or for losses resulting from any injury or 
death sustained by its own employees or agents, as a result of 
activities connected to the contract.
    ``(g) Certification of Just and Reasonable Amount.--No payment may 
be made under subsection (a) unless the Administrator or the 
Administrator's designee certifies that the amount is just and 
reasonable.
    ``(h) Payments.--Upon the approval by the Administrator, payments 
under subsection (a) may be made, at the Administrator's election, 
either from--
            ``(1) funds obligated for the performance of the agreement 
        concerned;
            ``(2) funds available for research and development not 
        otherwise obligated; or
            ``(3) funds appropriated for such payments.
    ``(i) Relationship to Other Laws.--The Administrator may not 
provide indemnification under this section for an activity that 
requires a license or permit under chapter 509.
    ``(j) Construction.--The authority to indemnify under this section 
shall not create any rights in third persons that would not otherwise 
exist by law.
    ``(k) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Launch services.--The term `launch services' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 50902.
            ``(2) Provider.--The term `provider' means a person that 
        provides domestic launch services in support of any space 
        activity the Government carries out for the Government.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents for subchapter III 
of chapter 201 of title 51, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 20147 the following:

``20148. Indemnification; NASA launch services.''.

                           TITLE III--SCIENCE

                       Subtitle A--Earth Science

SEC. 301. EARTH SCIENCE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) continuous, long-term Earth observation data supports 
        the preparation for and management of natural and human-induced 
        disasters, benefits resource management and agricultural 
        forecasting, improves our understanding of climate, and 
        encourages environmental and economic sustainability;
            (2) due to the scope of activities required, Earth science 
        research and Earth observation are multi-agency endeavors 
        requiring significant cooperation and information sharing among 
        government, international, and scientific community partners;
            (3) in developing Earth observation technologies, 
        conducting Earth science satellite missions, and providing 
        research products to the scientific community, NASA plays a 
        crucial role in advancing Earth science; and
            (4) the loss of observational capabilities in Earth 
        science, as predicted by the National Research Council's 
        midterm update to its Earth Science Decadal Survey, risks 
        reversing gains in weather forecast accuracy, reducing disaster 
        response capabilities, and creating an irreversible gap in 
        Earth science data.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) given the importance of Earth science and Earth 
        observation data, NASA Earth science efforts--
                    (A) should be conducted in coordination with other 
                Federal agencies; and
                    (B) should be cognizant of international efforts 
                and the needs of the scientific and businesses 
                communities; and
            (2) whenever feasible, NASA and other Federal agencies 
        should consider the potential for reducing costs by purchasing 
        commercially available Earth science data and services.
    (c) Mission Prioritization.--
            (1) National strategy for earth observation.--The Office of 
        Science and Technology Policy, in implementing its National 
        Strategy for Earth Observation and in developing a National 
        Plan for Civil Earth Observations, shall prioritize Federal 
        Earth science and observation investments based on--
                    (A) its assessment of Earth science and observation 
                data requirements;
                    (B) the capability requirements as identified by 
                the National Academies decadal surveys;
                    (C) the projected costs of Earth science missions 
                and data gathering activities; and
                    (D) the projected and available budgets.
            (2) National plan for civil earth observations.--The 
        Administration, in prioritizing future Earth science and Earth 
        observation missions and technology development under the 
        National Plan for Civil Earth Observations and chapter 201 of 
        title 51, United States Code, shall consider potential cost-
        reduction opportunities, including--
                    (A) if feasible, co-locating Earth science sensors 
                on other satellites; and
                    (B) purchasing commercially available Earth science 
                data and services, including launch access to orbital 
                and sub-orbital space.

                       Subtitle B--Space Science

SEC. 321. HUMAN EXPLORATION AND SCIENCE COLLABORATION.

    The Administrator shall ensure that the Science Mission Directorate 
and the Human Exploration and Operations Mission Directorate coordinate 
in researching and reducing the risks that space exploration beyond 
low-Earth orbit pose to astronaut health. Not later than 90 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall provide to 
the appropriate committees of Congress a report detailing the results 
of previous research in this area and identifying opportunities for 
future science missions to contribute to the understanding of these 
risks.

SEC. 322. MAINTAINING A BALANCED SPACE SCIENCE PORTFOLIO.

    (a) In General.--Section 803 of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (124 Stat. 2832) is amended to 
read as follows:

``SEC. 803. OVERALL SCIENCE PORTFOLIO; SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    ``Congress reaffirms its sense that a balanced and adequately 
funded set of activities, consisting of research and analysis grants 
programs, technology development, small, medium, and large space 
missions, and suborbital research activities, contributes to a robust 
and productive science program and serves as a catalysis for innovation 
and discovery. The Administrator should set science priorities by 
following the guidance provided by the scientific community through the 
National Academies' decadal surveys.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The item relating to section 803 in the 
table of contents in section 1(b) of the National Aeronautics and Space 
Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (124 Stat. 2806) is amended by 
striking ``Overall science portfolio-sense of the Congress'' and 
inserting ``Overall science portfolio; sense of Congress''.

SEC. 323. SCIENCE MISSION EXTENSIONS.

    Section 30504 of title 51, United States Code is amended to read as 
follows:
``Sec. 30504. Assessment of science mission extensions
    ``(a) Assessment.--The Administrator shall carry out biennial 
reviews within each of the Science divisions to assess the cost and 
benefits of extending the date of the termination of data collection 
for those missions that have exceeded their planned mission lifetime. 
In conducting these assessments, the Administrator shall consider--
            ``(1) the potential continued benefit of instruments on 
        missions that are beyond their planned mission lifetime; and
            ``(2) the cost and schedule impacts, if any, of mission 
        extension on other NASA activities and science missions.
    ``(b) Consultation Requirement.--When deciding whether to extend 
science missions with an operational component, the Administrator shall 
consult with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and 
any other affected Federal agency.''.

SEC. 324. PLANETARY SCIENCE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) Administration support for planetary science is 
        critical to enabling greater understanding of the solar system 
        and its origin;
            (2) the United States leads the world in planetary science 
        and can augment its success with appropriate international 
        partnerships;
            (3) a mix of small-, medium-, and large-planetary science 
        missions is required to sustain a steady cadence of planetary 
        exploration; and
            (4) robotic planetary exploration is a key component of 
        preparing for future human exploration.
    (b) Mission Priorities.--In accordance with the priorities 
established in the most recent decadal survey for planetary science, 
the Administrator shall ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, the 
completion of a balanced set of Discovery, New Frontiers, and flagship 
missions. The Administrator may seek, if necessary, adjustments to 
mission priorities, schedule, and scope in light of changing budget 
projections.
    (c) Instrumentation.--To support its science mission priorities, 
the Administration shall invest in a sustained program to develop or 
mature scientific instrument capabilities, as delineated in the NASA 
Science Instruments, Observatories, and Sensor Systems Roadmap.

SEC. 325. SPACE WEATHER.

    (a) OSTP Roadmap.--In coordination with NASA, the National Oceanic 
and Atmospheric Administration, and other relevant Federal agencies, 
the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, not later 
than 24 months after the date of enactment of this Act, shall deliver 
to the appropriate committees of Congress a roadmap for developing and 
deploying space weather forecasting technologies. The roadmap shall, at 
a minimum--
            (1) aim to relieve capability gaps identified by the 
        National Space Weather Program Council review of space weather 
        observing systems, as requested by the National Aeronautics and 
        Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18301 
        et seq.); and
            (2) consider ongoing and future requirements for space 
        weather modeling, monitoring, and prediction.
    (b) NASA Technology Roadmaps.--The Administration shall update and 
further develop its technology roadmaps as required to address 
mitigating a wide range of space weather effects on both satellites and 
spacecraft.
    (c) Alert Protocol.--The Director of the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy shall coordinate relevant Federal agencies to propose 
protocols for communicating and responding to space weather forecasts. 
Protocol assessment shall consider the needs of both government and 
private sector entities. The Director of the Office of Science and 
Technology Policy shall deliver a report on proposed protocols to 
Congress not later than 24 months after the date of enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 326. JAMES WEBB SPACE TELESCOPE.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the James Webb Space Telescope will significantly 
        advance our understanding of star and planet formation, improve 
        our knowledge of the early universe, and support U.S. 
        leadership in astrophysics;
            (2) significant progress has been made with regard to 
        overcoming the James Webb Space Telescope's technical 
        challenges and in improving NASA management oversight;
            (3) the on-time and on-budget completion of the James Webb 
        Space Telescope should remain a top NASA priority; and
            (4) consistent with annual Government Accountability Office 
        reviews of the James Webb Space Telescope program, the 
        Administrator should continue to improve the James Webb Space 
        Telescope's cost and schedule estimates and oversight 
        procedures in order to enhance NASA's ability to successfully 
        deliver the James Webb Space Telescope on time and on budget.

SEC. 327. UNIVERSITY CLASS SCIENCE MISSIONS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that principal 
investigator-led small orbital science missions, including CubeSat, 
University Explorer (UNEX), Small Explorer (SMEX), and Venture class 
missions, offer valuable, lower-cost opportunities to advance science, 
train the next generation of scientists and engineers, and provide 
opportunities for program participants to acquire skills in systems 
engineering and systems integration that are critical to maintaining 
the Nation's leadership in space.
    (b) Review of Principal Investigator Led Small Orbital Science 
Missions.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall enter into an 
        arrangement with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a 
        review of the small orbital science missions described under 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Requirements.--The review under paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The status, capability, and availability of 
                existing small orbital science mission programs in 
                which the missions are led by principal investigators 
                and enable significant participation by university 
                scientists and students.
                    (B) The opportunities that the small orbital 
                science missions described under subsection (a) provide 
                for scientific research, training, and education, 
                including scientific and engineering workforce 
                development.
                    (C) The use of commercial applications, such as 
                hosted payloads, free flyers, and data buys, as 
                vehicles to further the goals of small orbital science 
                missions, while preserving the principle of independent 
                peer review as the basis for mission selection.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 15 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report on the review 
        required by this section.
            (2) Contents.--The report shall include--
                    (A) a summary of the review under subsection (b);
                    (B) the findings of the Administrator with respect 
                to that review; and
                    (C) recommendations regarding principal 
                investigator led small orbital science missions 
                conducted by the Administration.

                         TITLE IV--AERONAUTICS

SEC. 401. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON NASA AERONAUTICS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) aviation is vital to the United States economy, with 
        the industry supporting nearly 1,000,000 jobs, conducting 
        nearly 10,000,000 commercial flights per year within the United 
        States alone, and contributing to the aerospace industry's 
        positive trade balance in 2012;
            (2) in helping test and mature new technologies for quiet 
        and efficient air transportation, NASA's Aeronautics Research 
        Mission Directorate addresses major aviation trends, such as 
        the rapid growth in passengers, increasing fuel costs, and the 
        demand for faster vehicles;
            (3) the Directorate works closely with industry and 
        academia to address long-term challenges to the air 
        transportation system that require improving aviation safety, 
        increasing the capacity of the increasingly crowded national 
        airspace system, and reducing environmental impacts;
            (4) through its Aeronautics Test Program, the Directorate 
        manages the flight operations and test infrastructure at 4 NASA 
        centers, providing both NASA and its industry partners with 
        access to critical facilities;
            (5) NASA's contribution to aeronautics is evidenced in the 
        use of its technologies in almost every modern aircraft; and
            (6) the Directorate has identified otherwise unknown safety 
        issues and helped optimize aircraft routes, yielding millions 
        of dollars in potential savings to airlines and benefitting 
        passengers.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Aeronautics Research Mission Directorate builds on 
        the successful legacy of NASA's predecessor, the National 
        Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, which worked closely with 
        industry partners to advance both military and civil aviation 
        until its dissolution in 1958;
            (2) NASA aeronautics research, development, and test 
        activities, including investments into composite structures, 
        new fuels, and innovative aircraft concepts, must continue in 
        order to support U.S. leadership in aviation;
            (3) the Directorate's efforts to collaborate with the 
        aviation industry to gather and analyze data and to prototype 
        and test algorithms that optimize flight routes, manage air 
        traffic, and account for weather impacts are critical to 
        supporting the safe use of the national airspace; and
            (4) continued cooperation between NASA's Aeronautics 
        Research Mission Directorate and the Federal Aviation 
        Administration is vital to providing the data and tools 
        necessary to best regulate the national airspace and to ensure 
        that new technologies are effectively tested and acquire timely 
        regulatory approval.

                       TITLE V--SPACE TECHNOLOGY

SEC. 501. SPACE TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) previous investments in space technologies have not 
        only enabled space exploration and research missions, but also 
        have improved the quality of life on Earth;
            (2) by improving affordability, reliability, and 
        operational capability, continued space technology developments 
        will enable NASA missions that otherwise would be unachievable;
            (3) investments in space technology engage the talent of 
        the Administration and of the Nation's academic and business 
        enterprises; and
            (4) space technology roadmaps serve as a useful framework 
        for NASA, academic, and industry development efforts.
    (b) Space Technology Directive.--To advance NASA's space 
exploration and space research goals, the Administrator shall continue 
a program with responsibility for NASA investments in space 
technologies and capabilities. To the greatest extent possible, the 
Administrator shall synergize all NASA space technology investments, 
encourage collaboration in space technology development with academia 
and industry, and minimize duplication of space technology development 
efforts across the Administration and the private sector unless 
duplication is required to maintain mission safety, security, or backup 
capability.
    (c) Space Technology Roadmap Report.--In carrying out the policy 
under subsection (b), the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress, not later than 24 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, a progress report on the development, testing, 
and demonstration of the 14 technological areas of the Space Technology 
Roadmaps.

                          TITLE VI--EDUCATION

SEC. 601. EDUCATION AND OUTREACH ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Administration is uniquely recognized in the 
        educational and global communities for its aerospace knowledge, 
        passionate workforce, and unique capabilities and facilities;
            (2) U.S. competitiveness in aerospace requires engaging the 
        science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) talent 
        in all States and jurisdictions;
            (3) the Administration's education and outreach programs, 
        including the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive 
        Research (EPSCoR) and the Space Grant College and Fellowship 
        Program, reflect the Administration's successful commitment to 
        growing and diversifying the national science and engineering 
        workforce;
            (4) the Administration's outreach efforts to 
        underrepresented and underserved communities, by helping 
        minorities to pursue higher education in STEM fields and to 
        attain STEM careers, benefit the overall national workforce; 
        and
            (5) the Administration's efforts to improve the management 
        and execution of its education portfolio and to evaluate 
        program success using evidence-based approaches should 
        continue.
    (b) In General.--The Administration shall--
            (1) continue to execute its educational and outreach 
        programs, including providing a wide range of academic research 
        opportunities and engaging the public interest in science, 
        technology, engineering and mathematics;
            (2) continue to collaborate with minority institutions to 
        increase student participation in science, technology, 
        engineering, and mathematics; and
            (3) seek partnerships with industry, academia, and with 
        other communities to best respond to the Nation's aerospace-
        related educational and workforce needs.
    (c) Space Grant.--To enhance the United States STEM education and 
workforce, the Administrator shall continue to operate the National 
Space Grant College and Fellowship program through a national network 
of regional consortia. The program shall provide hands-on research, 
training, and education programs, use measurable outcomes to gauge 
success, and allow States flexibility in its execution.

                        TITLE VII--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 701. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON NASA'S CROSS AGENCY SUPPORT.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Cross Agency Support operates and maintains the 
        Administration's centers and facilities, including 
        headquarters, enabling the accomplishment of the 
        Administration's missions while protecting human health and the 
        environment.
            (2) Cross Agency Support provides for the unique 
        facilities, skilled personnel, and administrative support that 
        NASA programs, research, and development activities require at 
        the centers.
            (3) Cross Agency Support provides the Administration with 
        the capability to improve mission success by supplying safety 
        and mission assurance, engineering technical authority, and 
        health and medical oversight across all of NASA's programs, 
        research, and operations.
            (4) The Orbital Debris Program Office is located in Cross 
        Agency Support and leads the Administration's effort in 
        addressing the orbital debris issue, which is an issue 
        resulting from over 50 years of spaceflight.
            (5) Cross Agency Support delivers the information 
        technology services used throughout the Administration that 
        allow its workforce to work and communicate efficiently and 
        effectively, not only internal to the Administration, but with 
        the citizens of the world which provides them the opportunity 
        to be included and participate in the Administration's 
        accomplishments.
            (6) The Administration's public affairs, located in Cross 
        Agency Support, provided worldwide live coverage of the 
        Curiosity Rover's landing on Mars, the largest rover ever sent 
        to Mars, in August of 2012.
            (7) The authority and execution of the Administration's 
        offices responsible for finance, budget, acquisition, external 
        relations, legislative affairs, training, security, and human 
        capital management are performed under Cross Agency Support.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) Cross Agency Support represents a variety of functions 
        vital to the strength and success of the Administration and is 
        essential to the Administration's vision;
            (2) the centers and facilities in the Administration are a 
        vital part of the many advances in science and technology the 
        Administration has provided and continues to provide to this 
        Nation and the world since the Administration was created in 
        1958;
            (3) at the Administration's core is safety and mission 
        success that, through Cross Agency Support, is carried out by 
        the highly talented and dedicated workforce at the 
        Administration's centers and facilities;
            (4) as the Administration looks to continue international, 
        interagency, and industry cooperation and partnerships, Cross 
        Agency Support will continue to provide the overseeing and 
        execution of these efforts; and
            (5) Cross Agency Support be given the necessary resources 
        to keep the Administration capable of meeting the goals set 
        forth by Congress and continue to be a global leader in space 
        and aeronautics.

SEC. 702. SPACE COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK.

    (a) Plan.--The Administrator shall prepare an updated plan for 
NASA's near-Earth, space, and deep space communications network and 
infrastructure. The plan shall--
            (1) identify steps to sustain the existing network and 
        infrastructure;
            (2) assess the capabilities, including any upgrades, needed 
        to support NASA's programs;
            (3) identify priorities for how resources should be used to 
        implement the plan; and
            (4) assess the impact on missions if resources are not 
        secured at the level needed.
    (b) Transmittal.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall transmit the plan to the 
appropriate committees of Congress.

SEC. 703. ASTRONAUT OCCUPATIONAL HEALTHCARE.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 313 of title 51, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 31303. Astronaut occupational healthcare
    ``(a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Administrator, as the Administrator considers necessary, may provide 
for the medical monitoring, diagnosis, and treatment of a crewmember 
for conditions that the Administrator considers associated with human 
space flight, including scientific and medical tests for psychological 
and medical conditions.
    ``(b) Records.--Consistent with applicable Federal privacy laws, 
the Administration shall retain access to all medical records and other 
health data from the provision of healthcare under subsection (a).
    ``(c) Definition of Crewmember.--In this section, the term 
`crewmember' means--
            ``(1) a former NASA astronaut/payload specialist who has 
        flown on at least 1 space mission;
            ``(2) a management NASA astronaut who has flown at least 1 
        space mission and is currently employed by the U.S. Government; 
        or
            ``(3) an active NASA astronaut/payload specialist assigned, 
        waiting assignment, or training for an assignment to a NASA 
        human space flight.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents for chapter 313 of 
title 51, United States Code, is amended by adding after the item 
relating to section 31302 the following:

``31303. Astronaut occupational healthcare.''.

SEC. 704. HELIUM CAPTURE AND RECOVERY.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress an agency-wide plan to recover and 
recycle helium, whenever possible, that the Administration uses or will 
use in current, planned, and future experimentation, tests, launches, 
and operations.
    (b) Considerations.--In developing the plan under subsection (a), 
the Administrator shall consider how modifications, updates, or new 
lifecycle designs for engines, balloons, airships, or other future 
programs can be designed or operated to recover and recycle helium.

SEC. 705. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY GOVERNANCE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that effective 
information technology governance is critical to ensuring information 
security, decreased costs, and overall mission assurance. The June 5, 
2013, NASA Office of Inspector General audit, ``NASA's Information 
Technology Governance,'' found that the NASA Chief Information Officer 
has limited oversight and control over a majority of the 
Administration's information technology assets and cannot enforce 
security measures across the agency's computer networks. For nearly 2 
decades, the Administration has operated under a decentralized 
information technology governance structure that has resulted in 
increased costs and inadequate security. At the same time, 
centralization of information technology governance has resulted in 
increased security and lower operating costs at other agencies.
    (b) Information Technology Governance.--The Administrator shall, in 
consultation with Mission Directorate and NASA Center Chief Information 
Officers--
            (1) ensure the Agency Chief Information Officer has the 
        appropriate resources and visibility to oversee agency-wide 
        information technology operations and investments;
            (2) establish a direct line of report between the Agency 
        Chief Information Officer and the Administrator;
            (3) establish a minimum monetary threshold for all agency 
        information technology investments over which the Agency Chief 
        Information Officer shall have final approval; and
            (4) consider appropriate revisions to the charters of 
        information technology boards and councils that inform 
        information technology investment and operation decisions.

SEC. 706. IMPROVEMENTS TO BASELINES AND COST CONTROLS BREACH REPORTING 
              PROCESS.

    Section 30104 of title 51, United States Code is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)(3)--
                    (A) by striking ``the notification''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``the notification and a timeline 
                by which the Administrator intends to make the 
                determination, report, and analysis under subsection 
                (e)'' before the period at the end;
            (2) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``Not later than 30 
        days after receiving a written notification under subsection 
        (d)(2)'' and inserting ``In accordance with the timeline under 
        subsection (d)(3)'';
            (3) in subsection (e)(1)(A), by striking ``not later than 
        15 days after making the determination'' and inserting ``in 
        accordance with the timeline under subsection (d)(3)'';
            (4) in subsection (e)(2), by striking ``not later than 6 
        months after the Administrator makes a determination under this 
        subsection'' and inserting ``in accordance with the timeline 
        under subsection (d)(3)''; and
            (5) in subsection (f), by inserting ``or an annual budget 
        request that reflects this growth'' after ``a report under 
        subsection (e)(1)(A)''.

SEC. 707. INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the Administration has a role in providing access to 
        unique or specialized laboratory capabilities that are not 
        economically viable for purchase by commercial entities and 
        therefore are not available outside of NASA;
            (2) the deteriorating condition of the Administration's 
        facilities and other infrastructure is hampering the research 
        effectiveness and efficiency performed at those facilities by 
        both the Administration and industry participants;
            (3) the Administration must improve the condition of its 
        facilities and infrastructure to maintain the competitiveness 
        of the U.S. aerospace industry;
            (4) to ensure continued researcher access to reliable and 
        efficient world-class facilities, the Administration should 
        seek to establish strategic partnerships with other Federal 
        agencies, academic institutions, and industry, as appropriate; 
        and
            (5) decisions regarding whether to dispose of, maintain, or 
        modernize existing facilities and other infrastructure must be 
        made in the context of meeting the future laboratory needs of 
        the Administration and other Federal agencies.
    (b) Plan.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate committees 
of Congress a plan for retaining or acquiring the facilities, 
laboratories, equipment, test capabilities, and other infrastructure 
necessary to meet the Administration's mandates and its current and 
future missions. The plan shall--
            (1) identify the Administration's future infrastructure 
        needs, including facilities, laboratories, equipment, and test 
        capabilities;
            (2) include a strategy for identifying and removing 
        unnecessary or duplicative infrastructure consistent with the 
        national strategic direction under the National Space Policy, 
        the National Aeronautics Research, Development, Test and 
        Evaluation Infrastructure Plan, the National Aeronautics and 
        Space Administration Authorization Act of 2010, title 51 of the 
        United States Code, and other Administration-related law;
            (3) include a strategy for the maintenance, repair, 
        upgrading, and modernization of the Administration's 
        facilities, laboratories, equipment, and other infrastructure;
            (4) recommend criteria for prioritizing deferred 
        maintenance tasks and for upgrading or modernizing facilities, 
        laboratories, equipment, and other infrastructure;
            (5) include an assessment of modifications needed to 
        maximize the use of facilities, laboratories, equipment, and 
        other infrastructure that offer unique and highly specialized 
        benefits to the aerospace industry and the public; and
            (6) include recommendations for implementation, including a 
        timeline, milestones, and an estimate of the resources required 
        for carrying out the plan.
    (c) Establishment of Capital Funds.--The Administrator shall 
establish a capital fund at each of NASA's field centers for the 
modernization of facilities, laboratories, equipment, and other 
infrastructure in accordance with the plan under subsection (b). The 
Administrator shall ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, that 
any financial savings achieved by closing an outdated or surplus 
facility at a NASA field center is made available to that field 
center's capital fund for the purpose of modernizing that field 
center's facilities, laboratories, equipment, and other infrastructure 
in accordance with the plan under subsection (b).

SEC. 708. KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) the Administration's success relies heavily on the 
        accumulated technical knowledge of its skilled civil servant 
        and contractor workforce;
            (2) in light of an aging workforce, it is imperative that 
        the Administration preserve, to the maximum extent possible, 
        both critical technical skills and all knowledge valuable to 
        future mission planning and operation; and
            (3) exercising best practice knowledge management systems 
        within the Administration will benefit the future NASA 
        workforce and help ensure future mission successes.
    (b) Knowledge Management System.--The Administrator shall establish 
an Administration-wide knowledge management system and implement 
industry-standard best practices for capturing, archiving, and 
retrieving heritage and future information. The information under this 
subsection shall be accessible to all Administration employees unless 
otherwise prohibited because of the classified or sensitive nature of 
the information.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report that, at a minimum, includes--
            (1) a description of any actions necessary to create or 
        modify an Administration-wide knowledge management system;
            (2) a plan for implementing the knowledge management 
        system, including employee training and the provision of secure 
        access to information, as required for all personnel working on 
        Administration programs, projects, and research;
            (3) a summary of implementation costs for the knowledge 
        management system; and
            (4) a timeline and progress report for implementation.
    (d) Workforce Stabilization and Critical Skills Preservation.--
Section 1105 of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
Authorization Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 18431) is amended by striking 
``2013'' and inserting ``2016''.
                                 <all>
