
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 303 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 303

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 18, 2013.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 5) to support State and local accountability for public education, 
protect State and local authority, inform parents of the performance of their 
children's schools, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall 
be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Education and the Workforce. After general debate the bill 
shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
Education and the Workforce now printed in the bill, it shall be in order to 
consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute 
rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules 
Committee Print 113-18. That amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against that amendment in the nature of 
a substitute are waived. No amendment to that amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be in order except those printed in the report of the Committee 
on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only 
in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated 
in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time 
specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an 
opponent, may be withdrawn by the proponent at any time before action thereon, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for 
division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All 
points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the 
bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may 
demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of 
the Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in 
order as original text. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
