
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2930 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2930

   To direct the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans 
 Affairs to provide for the conduct of an evaluation of mental health 
 care and suicide prevention programs of the Department of Defense and 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, to require a pilot program on loan 
 repayment for psychiatrists who agree to serve in the Veterans Health 
  Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           November 17, 2014

   Mr. McCain (for himself, Mr. Burr, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Blunt, Mr. 
 Manchin, and Ms. Murkowski) introduced the following bill; which was 
     read twice and referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To direct the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans 
 Affairs to provide for the conduct of an evaluation of mental health 
 care and suicide prevention programs of the Department of Defense and 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, to require a pilot program on loan 
 repayment for psychiatrists who agree to serve in the Veterans Health 
  Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for 
American Veterans Act'' or the ``Clay Hunt SAV Act''.

SEC. 2. EVALUATION OF MENTAL HEALTH CARE AND SUICIDE PREVENTION 
              PROGRAMS OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND DEPARTMENT 
              OF DEFENSE.

    (a) Evaluation.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary concerned shall provide for 
        the conduct of an evaluation of the mental health care and 
        suicide prevention programs carried out under the laws 
        administered by such Secretary.
            (2) Elements.--Each evaluation conducted under paragraph 
        (1) shall--
                    (A) use metrics that are common among and useful 
                for practitioners in the field of mental health care 
                and suicide prevention;
                    (B) evaluate the effectiveness of each mental 
                health care and suicide prevention program conducted by 
                the Secretary concerned, including such programs 
                conducted at a Center of Excellence;
                    (C) identify the most effective and least effective 
                of the programs evaluated under subparagraph (B);
                    (D) include recommendations on which programs 
                evaluated under subparagraph (B) can be eliminated or 
                consolidated and which programs can benefit from 
                additional resources; and
                    (E) propose best practices for caring for 
                individuals who suffer from mental health disorders or 
                are at risk of suicide.
            (3) Third party.--
                    (A) In general.--Each evaluation provided for under 
                paragraph (1) shall be conducted by an independent 
                third party unaffiliated with the Department of 
                Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense.
                    (B) Submittal of evaluation.--An independent third 
                party that conducts an evaluation provided for under 
                paragraph (1) shall submit to the Secretary concerned 
                the evaluation of the mental health care and suicide 
                prevention programs carried out under the laws 
                administered by such Secretary.
            (4) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall submit to 
        the appropriate committees of Congress a report that contains 
        the evaluation submitted to the Secretary under paragraph 
        (3)(B).
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs with respect 
                to matters concerning the Department of Veterans 
                Affairs; and
                    (B) the Secretary of Defense with respect to 
                matters concerning the Department of Defense.

SEC. 3. PUBLICATION OF INTERNET WEBSITE TO PROVIDE INFORMATION 
              REGARDING MENTAL HEALTH CARE SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall publish an 
Internet website that serves as a centralized source to provide 
veterans with information regarding all of the mental health care 
services provided by the Secretary.
    (b) Elements.--The Internet website published under subsection (a) 
shall provide to veterans information regarding all of the mental 
health care services available under the laws administered by the 
Secretary, disaggregated by Veterans Integrated Service Network, 
including, with respect to each medical center and community-based 
outpatient center--
            (1) the name and contact information of each social work 
        office;
            (2) the name and contact information of each mental health 
        clinic;
            (3) a list of all staff who carry out tasks related to the 
        provision of mental health care services; and
            (4) any other information the Secretary determines 
        appropriate.
    (c) Updated Information.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
information described in subsection (b) that is published on the 
Internet website under subsection (a) is updated not less than once 
every 90 days.
    (d) Outreach.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall 
ensure that the outreach conducted under section 1720F(i) of title 38, 
United States Code, includes information regarding the Internet website 
published under subsection (a).

SEC. 4. IMPROVEMENTS TO HEALTH CARE MATTERS.

    (a) Reserve Components and Department of Veterans Affairs.--The 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Defense, in 
consultation with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau, shall enter 
into formal strategic relationships between the Joint Forces 
Headquarters of each State regional commands of the reserve components 
of the Armed Forces and the Veterans Service Integrated Network, 
medical facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and other 
local offices of the Department of Veterans Affairs located in or 
serving the State with respect to facilitating--
            (1) the mental health referrals of members of the reserve 
        components of the Armed Forces who have a service-connected 
        disability and are being discharged or released from the Armed 
        Forces;
            (2) timely behavioral health services for such members;
            (3) communication between the various entities when such 
        members are at risk for behavioral health reasons; and
            (4) the transfer of documentation for line of duty and 
        fitness for duty determinations.
    (b) Comptroller General Report on Transition of Care.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2015, the 
        Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees (as defined in section 
        101(a)(16) of title 10, United States Code), the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Veterans' 
        Affairs of the House of Representatives a report that assesses 
        the transition of care for post-traumatic stress disorder or 
        traumatic brain injury.
            (2) Matters included.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The programs, policies, and regulations that 
                affect the transition of care for post-traumatic stress 
                disorder or traumatic brain injury, particularly with 
                respect to individuals who are taking or have been 
                prescribed antidepressants, stimulants, antipsychotics, 
                mood stabilizers, anxiolytics, depressants, or 
                hallucinogens.
                    (B) Upon transitioning to care furnished by the 
                Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the extent to which the 
                pharmaceutical treatment plan of an individual changes 
                and the factors determining such changes.
                    (C) The extent to which the Secretary of Defense 
                and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs have worked 
                together to identify and apply best pharmaceutical 
                treatment practices.
                    (D) A description of the off-formulary waiver 
                process of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the 
                extent to which the process is applied efficiently at 
                the treatment level.
                    (E) The benefits and challenges of combining the 
                formularies across the Department of Defense and the 
                Department of Veterans Affairs.
                    (F) Such other issues as the Comptroller General 
                considers appropriate.
            (3) Transition of care defined.--In this subsection, the 
        term ``transition of care'' means the transition of an 
        individual from receiving treatment furnished by the Secretary 
        of Defense to treatment furnished by the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs.

SEC. 5. PILOT PROGRAM FOR REPAYMENT OF EDUCATIONAL LOANS FOR CERTAIN 
              PSYCHIATRISTS OF VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out 
a pilot program to repay loans of individuals described in subsection 
(b) that--
            (1) were used by such individuals to finance the 
        educational expenses of such individuals relating to 
        psychiatric medicine, including education leading to--
                    (A) an undergraduate degree;
                    (B) a degree of doctor of medicine; or
                    (C) a degree of doctor of osteopathy; and
            (2) were obtained from any of the following:
                    (A) A governmental entity.
                    (B) A private financial institution.
                    (C) An institution of higher education.
                    (D) Any other entity as specified the Secretary for 
                purposes of the pilot program.
    (b) Eligible Individuals.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), an individual 
        eligible for participation in the pilot program is an 
        individual who--
                    (A) either--
                            (i) is licensed or eligible for licensure 
                        to practice psychiatric medicine in the 
                        Veterans Health Administration of the 
                        Department of Veterans Affairs; or
                            (ii) is enrolled in the final year of a 
                        residency program leading to a specialty 
                        qualification in psychiatric medicine that is 
                        approved by the Accreditation Council for 
                        Graduate Medical Education; and
                    (B) demonstrates a commitment to a long-term career 
                as a psychiatrist in the Veterans Health 
                Administration, as determined by the Secretary.
            (2) Prohibition on simultaneous eligibility.--An individual 
        who is participating in any other program of the Federal 
        Government that repays the educational loans of the individual 
        is not eligible to participate in the pilot program.
    (c) Selection.--The Secretary shall select not less than 10 
individuals described in subsection (b) to participate in the pilot 
program for each year in which the Secretary carries out the pilot 
program.
    (d) Period of Obligated Service.--The Secretary shall enter into an 
agreement with each individual selected under subsection (c) in which 
such individual agrees to serve a period of obligated service for the 
Veterans Health Administration in the field of psychiatric medicine, as 
determined by the Secretary for purposes of the pilot program, in 
exchange for the repayment of the loan or loans of such individual 
under the pilot program.
    (e) Loan Repayments.--
            (1) Amounts.--Subject to paragraph (2), a loan repayment 
        under this section may consist of payment of the principal, 
        interest, and related expenses of a loan obtained by an 
        individual who is participating in the pilot program for all 
        educational expenses (including tuition, fees, books, and 
        laboratory expenses) of such individual relating to education 
        described in subsection (a)(1).
            (2) Limit.--For each year of obligated service that an 
        individual who is participating in the pilot program agrees to 
        serve under subsection (d), the Secretary may pay not more than 
        $120,000 in loan repayment on behalf of such individual.
    (f) Breach.--
            (1) Liability.--An individual who participates in the pilot 
        program and fails to satisfy the period of obligated service 
        under subsection (d) shall be liable to the United States, in 
        lieu of such obligated service, for the amount that has been 
        paid or is payable to or on behalf of the individual under the 
        pilot program, reduced by the proportion that the number of 
        days served for completion of the period of obligated service 
        bears to the total number of days in the period of obligated 
        service of such individual.
            (2) Repayment period.--Any amount of damages that the 
        United States is entitled to recover under this subsection 
        shall be paid to the United States not later than one year 
        after the date of the breach of the agreement.
    (g) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than two years after the 
                date on which the pilot program under subsection (a) 
                commences, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee 
                on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
                Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a 
                report on the pilot program.
                    (B) Elements.--The report required by subparagraph 
                (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) The number of individuals who 
                        participated in the pilot program.
                            (ii) The locations in which such 
                        individuals were employed by the Department, 
                        including how many such locations were rural or 
                        urban locations.
                            (iii) An assessment of the quality of the 
                        work performed by such individuals in the 
                        course of such employment.
                            (iv) The number of psychiatrists the 
                        Secretary determines is needed by the 
                        Department in the future.
            (2) Interim report.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
        on which the pilot program terminates under subsection (i), the 
        Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
        the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House 
        of Representatives an update to the report submitted under 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) Final report.--Not later than one year after the date 
        on which the pilot program terminates under subsection (i), the 
        Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
        the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House 
        of Representatives a report specifying the number of 
        individuals who participated in the pilot who are still 
        employed by the Department as of the date of submittal of the 
        report.
    (h) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to 
carry out this section, including standards for qualified loans and 
authorized payees and other terms and conditions for the making of loan 
repayments.
    (i) Termination.--The authority to carry out the pilot program 
shall expire on the date that is three years after the date on which 
the Secretary commences the pilot program.

SEC. 6. REVIEW OF STAFFING REQUIREMENTS FOR STATE DIRECTORS OF 
              PSYCHOLOGICAL HEALTH.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 540 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report detailing the results of a 
review, conducted in coordination with the Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau, of the staffing requirements for individual State National 
Guard Commands with respect to Directors of Psychological Health.
    (b) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 7. COLLABORATION ON SUICIDE PREVENTION EFFORTS BETWEEN THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND NON-PROFIT MENTAL 
              HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) Collaboration.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may 
collaborate with non-profit mental health organizations to prevent 
suicide among veterans as follows:
            (1) To improve the efficiency and effectiveness of suicide 
        prevention efforts carried out by the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs and non-profit mental health organizations.
            (2) To assist non-profit mental health organizations with 
        the suicide prevention efforts of those organizations through 
        the use of the expertise of employees of the Department.
            (3) To jointly carry out suicide prevention efforts.
    (b) Exchange of Resources.--In carrying out any collaboration under 
subsection (a), the Secretary and any non-profit mental health 
organization with which the Secretary is collaborating under such 
subsection shall exchange training sessions, best practices, and other 
resources to help with the suicide prevention efforts of the Department 
and such organization.
    (c) Director of Suicide Prevention Coordination.--The Secretary 
shall select within the Department a Director of Suicide Prevention 
Coordination to undertake any collaboration with non-profit mental 
health organizations under this section or any other provision of law.
                                 <all>
