
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 366 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 366

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 28, 2013.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take 
from the Speaker's table the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 59) making continuing 
appropriations for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes, with the Senate 
amendment thereto, and to consider in the House, without intervention of any 
point of order, a motion offered by the chair of the Committee on Appropriations 
or his designee that the House concur in the Senate amendment with each of the 
two amendments printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution. The Senate amendment and the motion shall be considered as read. The 
motion shall be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption 
without intervening motion or demand for division of the question except that 
the question of adoption of the motion shall be divided between the two House 
amendments.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 3210) making continuing appropriations for military 
pay in the event of a Government shutdown. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) 40 minutes of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Appropriations; and (2) one motion to recommit.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
