
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2741 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 519
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2741

                          [Report No. 113-233]

 To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2015 for intelligence and 
 intelligence-related activities of the United States Government, the 
   Community Management Account, and the Central Intelligence Agency 
       Retirement and Disability System, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 31, 2014

Mrs. Feinstein, from the Select Committee on Intelligence, reported the 
    following original bill; which was read twice and placed on the 
                                calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2015 for intelligence and 
 intelligence-related activities of the United States Government, the 
   Community Management Account, and the Central Intelligence Agency 
       Retirement and Disability System, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Intelligence 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Budgetary effects.
                    TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Classified Schedule of Authorizations.
Sec. 103. Personnel ceiling adjustments.
Sec. 104. Intelligence Community Management Account.
 TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle A--General Matters

Sec. 301. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by 
                            law.
Sec. 302. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 303. Quadrennial Intelligence Strategic Review.
Sec. 304. Management and oversight of financial intelligence.
Sec. 305. Plan for applying private sector best practices to improving 
                            insider threat detection.
Sec. 306. Procedures for the retention of incidentally acquired 
                            communications.
Sec. 307. Feasibility study on consolidating classified cyber threat 
                            indicator and malware databases.
Sec. 308. Sense of Congress on cybersecurity threat and cybercrime 
                            cooperation with Ukraine.
Sec. 309. Replacement of locally employed staff serving at United 
                            States diplomatic facilities in the Russian 
                            Federation.
Sec. 310. Inclusion of restricted access spaces in United States 
                            diplomatic facilities in the Russian 
                            Federation and adjacent countries.
                         Subtitle B--Reporting

Sec. 311. Report on declassification process.
Sec. 312. Report on intelligence community efficient spending targets.
Sec. 313. Annual report on violations of law or executive order.
Sec. 314. Annual report on intelligence activities of the Department of 
                            Homeland Security.
Sec. 315. Report on intelligence sharing with Ukraine.
Sec. 316. Report on political prison camps in North Korea.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Congressional intelligence committees.--The term 
        ``congressional intelligence committees'' means--
                    (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
                Senate; and
                    (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
                of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
        community'' has the meaning given that term in section 3(4) of 
        the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).

SEC. 3. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go-Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

                    TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 
for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related activities 
of the following elements of the United States Government:
            (1) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
            (2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
            (3) The Department of Defense.
            (4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
            (5) The National Security Agency.
            (6) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, 
        and the Department of the Air Force.
            (7) The Coast Guard.
            (8) The Department of State.
            (9) The Department of the Treasury.
            (10) The Department of Energy.
            (11) The Department of Justice.
            (12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
            (13) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
            (14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
            (15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
            (16) The Department of Homeland Security.

SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) Specifications of Amounts and Personnel Levels.--The amounts 
authorized to be appropriated under section 101 and, subject to section 
103, the authorized personnel ceilings as of September 30, 2015, for 
the conduct of the intelligence activities of the elements listed in 
paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 101, are those specified in the 
classified Schedule of Authorizations prepared to accompany the bill S. 
____ of the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress.
    (b) Availability of Classified Schedule of Authorizations.--
            (1) Availability.--The classified Schedule of 
        Authorizations referred to in subsection (a) shall be made 
        available to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, 
        and to the President.
            (2) Distribution by the president.--Subject to paragraph 
        (3), the President shall provide for suitable distribution of 
        the classified Schedule of Authorizations, or of appropriate 
        portions of the Schedule, within the executive branch.
            (3) Limits on disclosure.--The President shall not publicly 
        disclose the classified Schedule of Authorizations or any 
        portion of such Schedule except--
                    (A) as provided in section 601(a) of the 
                Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act 
                of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 3306(a));
                    (B) to the extent necessary to implement the 
                budget; or
                    (C) as otherwise required by law.

SEC. 103. PERSONNEL CEILING ADJUSTMENTS.

    (a) Authority for Increases.--The Director of National Intelligence 
may authorize employment of civilian personnel in excess of the number 
authorized for fiscal year 2015 by the classified Schedule of 
Authorizations referred to in section 102(a) if the Director of 
National Intelligence determines that such action is necessary to the 
performance of important intelligence functions, except that the number 
of personnel employed in excess of the number authorized under such 
section may not, for any element of the intelligence community, exceed 
3 percent of the number of civilian personnel authorized under such 
Schedule for such element.
    (b) Treatment of Certain Personnel.--The Director of National 
Intelligence shall establish guidelines that govern, for each element 
of the intelligence community, the treatment under the personnel levels 
authorized under section 102(a), including any exemption from such 
personnel levels, of employment or assignment in--
            (1) a student program, trainee program, or similar program;
            (2) a reserve corps or as a reemployed annuitant; or
            (3) details, joint duty, or long term, full-time training.
    (c) Notice to Congressional Intelligence Committees.--The Director 
of National Intelligence shall notify the congressional intelligence 
committees in writing at least 15 days prior to each exercise of an 
authority described in subsection (a).

SEC. 104. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account of the 
Director of National Intelligence for fiscal year 2015 the sum of 
$511,194,000. Within such amount, funds identified in the classified 
Schedule of Authorizations referred to in section 102(a) for advanced 
research and development shall remain available until September 30, 
2016.
    (b) Authorized Personnel Levels.--The elements within the 
Intelligence Community Management Account of the Director of National 
Intelligence are authorized 794 positions as of September 30, 2015. 
Personnel serving in such elements may be permanent employees of the 
Office of the Director of National Intelligence or personnel detailed 
from other elements of the United States Government.
    (c) Classified Authorizations.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--In addition to 
        amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence 
        Community Management Account by subsection (a), there are 
        authorized to be appropriated for the Community Management 
        Account for fiscal year 2015 such additional amounts as are 
        specified in the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred 
        to in section 102(a). Such additional amounts for advanced 
        research and development shall remain available until September 
        30, 2016.
            (2) Authorization of personnel.--In addition to the 
        personnel authorized by subsection (b) for elements of the 
        Intelligence Community Management Account as of September 30, 
        2015, there are authorized such additional personnel for the 
        Community Management Account as of that date as are specified 
        in the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in 
        section 102(a).

 TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability Fund for fiscal year 2015 the sum of 
$514,000,000.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle A--General Matters

SEC. 301. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED BY 
              LAW.

    Appropriations authorized by this Act for salary, pay, retirement, 
and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased by such 
additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for increases in 
such compensation or benefits authorized by law.

SEC. 302. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

    The authorization of appropriations by this Act shall not be deemed 
to constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence activity 
which is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or the laws of 
the United States.

SEC. 303. QUADRENNIAL INTELLIGENCE STRATEGIC REVIEW.

    (a) In General.--Title I of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3021 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 108 the 
following:

``SEC. 108A. QUADRENNIAL INTELLIGENCE STRATEGIC REVIEW.

    ``(a) Requirement for Review.--Beginning in 2017, and once every 
four years thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
conduct a comprehensive review of the intelligence strategy, 
capabilities, structure, policies, infrastructure, budget plans, and 
other relevant aspects of intelligence programs and activities of the 
United States to meet national security objectives for the next ten 
years. Such a review shall be known as a `Quadrennial Intelligence 
Strategic Review'.
    ``(b) Consultation.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
conduct each Quadrennial Intelligence Strategic Review required by 
subsection (a) in consultation with--
            ``(1) the heads of appropriate agencies and departments of 
        the United States, including the Secretary of Defense, the 
        Attorney General, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the 
        Treasury, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director 
        of the Office of Management and Budget;
            ``(2) the head of each element of the intelligence 
        community and other appropriate officials in the intelligence 
        community; and
            ``(3) other relevant governmental and nongovernmental 
        officials, including State, local, and tribal government 
        officials, members of Congress, private sector representatives, 
        academics, and other experts.
    ``(c) Conduct of Review.--Each Quadrennial Intelligence Strategic 
Review required by subsection (a) shall--
            ``(1) delineate a national intelligence strategy consistent 
        with--
                    ``(A) the most recent national security strategy 
                report submitted pursuant to section 108;
                    ``(B) the intelligence strategies of other 
                departments and agencies of the United States; and
                    ``(C) other national-level plans;
            ``(2) address matters related to national and military 
        intelligence, including counterintelligence;
            ``(3) describe the products, services, and support that 
        United States intelligence should provide to advance national 
        interests and objectives of the United States;
            ``(4) identify the major national security missions that 
        the intelligence community is currently pursuing and will purse 
        in the future, and how the intelligence community will pursue 
        such missions;
            ``(5) assess the current, emerging, and future threats to 
        the intelligence community, including threats from foreign 
        intelligence and security services and insider threats, and how 
        the intelligence community plans to address such threats;
            ``(6) outline the organizational roles and missions of the 
        elements of the intelligence community as part of an integrated 
        enterprise to meet current, emerging, and future customer 
        demands;
            ``(7) describe the levels and types of partnerships, 
        including partnerships with foreign intelligence and security 
        services, industry, and other agencies and departments of the 
        United States, required to implement the strategy described in 
        paragraph (1);
            ``(8) describe the levels and types of capabilities, 
        including personnel, technologies, and platforms, required to 
        implement the strategy described in paragraph (1);
            ``(9) identify sources of strategic, institutional, 
        programmatic, technological, and interoperability risks, and 
        how the intelligence community plans to address such risks;
            ``(10) address budgetary and personnel requirements; and
            ``(11) describe how the intelligence community will 
        implement the strategy described in paragraph (1), while 
        comporting with democratic norms and values.
    ``(d) Requirement for Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Director of National Intelligence 
        shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a 
        report on each Quadrennial Intelligence Strategic Review 
        required by subsection (a).
            ``(2) Timing of submission.--Each report shall be submitted 
        in the year following the year in which the Quadrennial 
        Intelligence Strategic Review is conducted, not later than the 
        date on which the President submits the budget for the next 
        fiscal year under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States 
        Code.
            ``(3) Content.--Each report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    ``(A) The results of the Quadrennial Intelligence 
                Strategic Review, including a comprehensive discussion 
                of national intelligence strategy in the context of 
                national security interests and objectives.
                    ``(B) A description of the assumptions used in the 
                Quadrennial Intelligence Strategic Review, including 
                assumptions related to--
                            ``(i) the anticipated security environment;
                            ``(ii) the role of foreign services, 
                        commercial partners, and contractors;
                            ``(iii) fiscal conditions; and
                            ``(iv) anticipated foreign competitor 
                        response.
                    ``(C) The size, distribution, and types of 
                capabilities that will be required to carry out the 
                strategy described in subsection (c)(1), including 
                capabilities for collection, language competency, and 
                information technology.
                    ``(D) The role of agencies and departments of the 
                United States that are not elements of the intelligence 
                community to support the strategy described in 
                subsection (c)(1).
                    ``(E) An analysis of the organizational roles and 
                missions between and among the elements in the 
                intelligence community, other agencies and departments 
                of the United States, and State, local, tribal, and 
                territorial governments in supporting the strategy 
                described in subsection (c)(1).
                    ``(F) An analysis of how laws, policies, 
                regulations, international norms, and democratic values 
                guide United States intelligence.''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendments.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 108 the following new 
item:

``Sec. 108A. Quadrennial Intelligence Strategic Review.''.

SEC. 304. MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT OF FINANCIAL INTELLIGENCE.

    (a) Requirement for Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
prepare a plan for management of the elements of the intelligence 
community that carry out financial intelligence activities.
    (b) Contents of Plan.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall 
establish a governance framework, procedures for sharing and 
harmonizing the acquisition and use of financial analytic tools, 
standards for quality of analytic products, procedures for oversight 
and evaluation of resource allocations associated with the joint 
development of information sharing efforts and tools, and an education 
and training model for elements of the intelligence community that 
carry out financial intelligence activities.
    (c) Briefing to Congress.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence 
shall brief the congressional intelligence committees on the actions 
the Director proposes to implement the plan required by subsection (a).

SEC. 305. PLAN FOR APPLYING PRIVATE SECTOR BEST PRACTICES TO IMPROVING 
              INSIDER THREAT DETECTION.

    (a) Requirement for Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the National Counterintelligence Executive, shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees a strategic plan 
for applying private sector best practices for employee access and 
monitoring systems to certain positions within the intelligence 
community, in accordance with applicable legal authorities and with 
appropriate privacy and civil liberties protections.
    (b) Content.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) a review of how the intelligence community could better 
        utilize private sector hiring and human resources best 
        practices to screen, vet, and validate the credentials, 
        capabilities, and character of applicants for positions 
        involving trusted access to sensitive information;
            (2) an analysis of private sector policies for holding 
        supervisors and subordinates accountable for violations of 
        established security protocols and whether the intelligence 
        community should adopt similar policies for positions of 
        trusted access to sensitive information;
            (3) an assessment of the feasibility of applying mandatory 
        leave policies, similar to those endorsed by the Federal 
        Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Securities and Exchange 
        Commission to identify fraud in the financial services 
        industry, to certain positions within the intelligence 
        community; and
            (4) recommendations for how the intelligence community 
        could utilize private sector risk indices, such as credit risk 
        scores, to make determinations about employee access to 
        sensitive information.

SEC. 306. PROCEDURES FOR THE RETENTION OF INCIDENTALLY ACQUIRED 
              COMMUNICATIONS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered communication.--The term ``covered 
        communication'' means any nonpublic telephone or electronic 
        communication acquired without the consent of a person who is a 
        party to the communication, including communications in 
        electronic storage.
            (2) Head of an element of the intelligence community.--The 
        term ``head of an element of the intelligence community'' 
        means, as appropriate--
                    (A) the head of an element of the intelligence 
                community; or
                    (B) the head of the department or agency containing 
                such element.
            (3) United states person.--The term ``United States 
        person'' has the meaning given that term in section 101 of the 
        Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801).
    (b) Procedures for Covered Communications.--
            (1) Requirement to adopt.--Not later than 2 years after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act each head of an element of 
        the intelligence community shall adopt procedures approved by 
        the Attorney General for such element that ensure compliance 
        with the requirements of paragraph (3).
            (2) Coordination and approval.--The procedures required by 
        paragraph (1) shall be--
                    (A) prepared in coordination with the Director of 
                National Intelligence; and
                    (B) approved by the Attorney General prior to 
                issuance.
            (3) Procedures.--The procedures required by paragraph (1) 
        shall apply to any intelligence collection activity that is 
        reasonably anticipated to result in the acquisition of covered 
        communications to or from a United States person not otherwise 
        authorized by court order (including an order issued by a court 
        established under subsection (a) or (b) of section 103 of the 
        Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 
        1803)), subpoena, or similar legal process and shall permit the 
        acquisition, retention, and dissemination of covered 
        communications subject to the following limitations:
                    (A) A covered communication shall not be retained 
                in excess of 5 years, unless--
                            (i) the communication has been 
                        affirmatively determined, in whole or in part, 
                        to constitute foreign intelligence or 
                        counterintelligence or is necessary to 
                        understand or assess foreign intelligence or 
                        counterintelligence;
                            (ii) the communication is reasonably 
                        believed to constitute evidence of a crime and 
                        is retained by a law enforcement agency;
                            (iii) the communication is enciphered or 
                        reasonably believed to have a secret meaning;
                            (iv) all parties to the communication are 
                        reasonably believed to be non-United States 
                        persons;
                            (v) retention is necessary to protect 
                        against an imminent threat to human life, in 
                        which case both the nature of the threat and 
                        the information to be retained shall be 
                        reported to the congressional intelligence 
                        committees not later than 30 days after the 
                        date such retention is extended under this 
                        clause;
                            (vi) retention is necessary for technical 
                        assurance or compliance purposes, in which case 
                        access to information retained for technical 
                        assurance or compliance purposes shall be 
                        reported to the congressional intelligence 
                        committees on an annual basis; or
                            (vii) retention for a period in excess of 5 
                        years is approved by the head of the element of 
                        the intelligence community responsible for such 
                        retention, based on a determination that 
                        retention is necessary to protect the national 
                        security of the United States, in which case 
                        the head of such element shall provide to the 
                        congressional intelligence committees a written 
                        certification describing--
                                    (I) the reasons extended retention 
                                is necessary to protect the national 
                                security of the United States;
                                    (II) the duration for which the 
                                head of the element is authorizing 
                                retention;
                                    (III) the particular information to 
                                be retained; and
                                    (IV) the measures the element of 
                                the intelligence community is taking to 
                                protect the privacy interests of United 
                                States persons or persons located 
                                inside the United States.
                    (B) Access to covered communications shall be 
                limited to persons who have a legitimate need to know 
                and have received training on application of the 
                applicable procedures approved by the Attorney General.

SEC. 307. FEASIBILITY STUDY ON CONSOLIDATING CLASSIFIED CYBER THREAT 
              INDICATOR AND MALWARE DATABASES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of 
the National Security Agency, the Director of the Central Intelligence 
Agency, and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall 
conduct a feasibility study on consolidating classified cyber threat 
indicator and malware sample databases in the intelligence community.
    (b) Elements.--The feasibility study required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) An inventory of classified cyber threat indicator and 
        malware sample databases in the intelligence community.
            (2) An assessment of actions that could be carried out to 
        consolidate such databases to achieve the greatest possible 
        information sharing within the intelligence community and cost 
        savings for the Federal Government.
            (3) An assessment of any collection sensitivities and 
        authority concerns preventing such consolidation.
            (4) An assessment of whether the Intelligence Community 
        Information Technology Enterprise can support such 
        consolidation.
    (c) Report to Congress.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
which the Director of National Intelligence completes the feasibility 
study required by subsection (a), the Director shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a written report that summarizes 
the feasibility study, including the information required under 
subsection (b).

SEC. 308. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CYBERSECURITY THREAT AND CYBERCRIME 
              COOPERATION WITH UKRAINE.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) cooperation between the intelligence and law 
        enforcement agencies of the United States and Ukraine should be 
        increased to improve cybersecurity policies between these two 
        countries;
            (2) the United States should pursue improved extradition 
        procedures among the Governments of the United States, Ukraine, 
        and other countries from which cybercriminals target United 
        States citizens and entities;
            (3) the President should--
                    (A) initiate a round of formal United States-
                Ukraine bilateral talks on cybersecurity threat and 
                cybercrime cooperation, with additional multilateral 
                talks that include other law enforcement partners such 
                as Europol and Interpol; and
                    (B) work to obtain a commitment from the Government 
                of Ukraine to end the previous practice of ignoring 
                cybercrime directed at persons outside Ukraine and to 
                work with the United States and other allies to deter 
                and convict known cybercriminals;
            (4) the President should establish a capacity building 
        program with the Government of Ukraine, which could include--
                    (A) a joint effort to improve cyber capacity 
                building, including intelligence and law enforcement 
                services in Ukraine;
                    (B) sending United States law enforcement agents to 
                aid law enforcement agencies in Ukraine in 
                investigating cybercrimes; and
                    (C) agreements to improve communications networks 
                to enhance law enforcement cooperation, such as a 
                hotline directly connecting law enforcement agencies in 
                the United States and Ukraine; and
            (5) the President should establish and maintain an 
        intelligence and law enforcement cooperation scorecard with 
        metrics designed to measure the number of instances that 
        intelligence and law enforcement agencies in the United States 
        request assistance from intelligence and law enforcement 
        agencies in Ukraine and the number and type of responses 
        received to such requests.

SEC. 309. REPLACEMENT OF LOCALLY EMPLOYED STAFF SERVING AT UNITED 
              STATES DIPLOMATIC FACILITIES IN THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

    (a) Employment Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State shall ensure that, 
        not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act, every supervisory position at a United States diplomatic 
        facility in the Russian Federation shall be occupied by a 
        citizen of the United States who has passed, and shall be 
        subject to, a thorough background check.
            (2) Extension.--The Secretary of State may extend the 
        deadline under paragraph (1) for up to one year by providing 
        advance written notification and justification of such 
        extension to the appropriate congressional committees.
            (3) Progress report.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall 
        submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
        progress made toward meeting the employment requirement under 
        paragraph (1).
    (b) Plan for Reduced Use of Locally Employed Staff.--Not later than 
180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
State, in coordination with other appropriate government agencies, 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a plan to 
further reduce the reliance on locally employed staff in United States 
diplomatic facilities in the Russian Federation. The plan shall, at a 
minimum, include cost estimates, timelines, and numbers of employees to 
be replaced.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and 
        the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
        of Representatives.

SEC. 310. INCLUSION OF RESTRICTED ACCESS SPACES IN UNITED STATES 
              DIPLOMATIC FACILITIES IN THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION AND 
              ADJACENT COUNTRIES.

    (a) Restricted Access Space Requirement.--Each United States 
diplomatic facility that, after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
is constructed in, or undergoes a construction upgrade in, the Russian 
Federation, any country that shares a land border with the Russian 
Federation, or any country that is a former member of the Soviet Union 
shall be constructed to include a restricted access space.
    (b) National Security Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
requirement under subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that it is 
in the national security interest of the United States and submits a 
written justification to the appropriate congressional committees not 
later than 180 days before exercising such waiver.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and 
        the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
        of Representatives.

                         Subtitle B--Reporting

SEC. 311. REPORT ON DECLASSIFICATION PROCESS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to Congress a 
report describing--
            (1) proposals to improve the declassification process 
        throughout the intelligence community; and
            (2) steps the intelligence community could take, or 
        legislation that may be necessary, to enable the National 
        Declassification Center to better accomplish the missions 
        assigned to the Center by Executive Order No. 13526 (75 Fed. 
        Reg. 707).

SEC. 312. REPORT ON INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY EFFICIENT SPENDING TARGETS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than April 1, 2016, and April 1, 2017, 
the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees a report on the status and effectiveness of 
efforts to reduce administrative costs for the intelligence community 
during the preceding year.
    (b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include for 
each element of the intelligence community the following:
            (1) A description of the status and effectiveness of 
        efforts to devise alternatives to government travel and promote 
        efficient travel spending, such as teleconferencing and video 
        conferencing.
            (2) A description of the status and effectiveness of 
        efforts to limit costs related to hosting and attending 
        conferences.
            (3) A description of the status and effectiveness of 
        efforts to assess information technology inventories and usage, 
        and establish controls, to reduce costs related to 
        underutilized information technology equipment, software, or 
        services.
            (4) A description of the status and effectiveness of 
        efforts to limit the publication and printing of hard copy 
        documents.
            (5) A description of the status and effectiveness of 
        efforts to improve the performance of Federal fleet motor 
        vehicles and limit executive transportation.
            (6) A description of the status and effectiveness of 
        efforts to limit the purchase of extraneous promotional items, 
        such as plaques, clothing, and commemorative items.
            (7) A description of the status and effectiveness of 
        efforts to consolidate and streamline workforce training 
        programs to focus on the highest priority workforce and mission 
        needs.
            (8) Such other matters relating to efforts to reduce 
        intelligence community administrative costs as the Director may 
        specify for purposes of this section.

SEC. 313. ANNUAL REPORT ON VIOLATIONS OF LAW OR EXECUTIVE ORDER.

    (a) In General.--Title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 511. ANNUAL REPORT ON VIOLATIONS OF LAW OR EXECUTIVE ORDER.

    ``(a) Annual Reports Required.--The Director of National 
Intelligence shall annually submit to the congressional intelligence 
committees a report on violations of law or executive order by 
personnel of an element of the intelligence community that were 
identified during the previous calendar year.
    ``(b) Elements.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall, 
consistent with the need to preserve ongoing criminal investigations, 
include a description of, and any action taken in response to, any 
violation of law or executive order (including Executive Order No. 
12333 (50 U.S.C. 3001 note)) relating to intelligence activities 
committed by personnel of an element of the intelligence community in 
the course of the employment of such personnel that, during the 
previous calendar year, was--
            ``(1) determined by the director, head, or general counsel 
        of any element of the intelligence community to have occurred;
            ``(2) referred to the Department of Justice for possible 
        criminal prosecution; or
            ``(3) substantiated by the inspector general of any element 
        of the intelligence community.''.
    (b) Initial Report.--The first report required under section 511 of 
the National Security Act of 1947, as added by subsection (a), shall be 
submitted not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (c) Guidelines.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the head of each element of the intelligence 
community, shall--
            (1) issue guidelines to carry out section 511 of the 
        National Security Act of 1947, as added by subsection (a); and
            (2) submit such guidelines to the congressional 
        intelligence committees.
    (d) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of sections in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by adding 
after the item relating to section 510 the following new item:

``Sec. 511. Annual report on violations of law or executive order.''.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section or the 
amendments made by this section shall be construed to alter any 
requirement existing on the date of the enactment of this Act to submit 
a report under any provision of law.

SEC. 314. ANNUAL REPORT ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              HOMELAND SECURITY.

    (a) In General.--For each fiscal year and along with the budget 
materials submitted in support of the budget of the Department of 
Homeland Security pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the 
Department shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a 
report for such fiscal year on each intelligence activity of each 
intelligence component of the Department, as designated by the Under 
Secretary, that includes the following:
            (1) The amount of funding requested for each such 
        intelligence activity.
            (2) The number of full-time employees funded to perform 
        each such intelligence activity.
            (3) The number of full-time contractor employees (or the 
        equivalent of full-time in the case of part-time contractor 
        employees) funded to perform or in support of each such 
        intelligence activity.
            (4) A determination as to whether each such intelligence 
        activity is predominantly in support of national intelligence 
        or departmental missions.
            (5) The total number of analysts of the Intelligence 
        Enterprise of the Department that perform--
                    (A) strategic analysis; or
                    (B) operational analysis.
    (b) Feasibility and Advisability Report.--Not later than 120 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, acting through the Under Secretary for Intelligence and 
Analysis, shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a 
report that--
            (1) examines the feasibility and advisability of including 
        the budget request for all intelligence activities of each 
        intelligence component of the Department that predominantly 
        support departmental missions, as designated by the Under 
        Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, in the Homeland 
        Security Intelligence Program; and
            (2) includes a plan to enhance the coordination of 
        department-wide intelligence activities to achieve greater 
        efficiencies in the performance of the Department of Homeland 
        Security intelligence functions.
    (c) Intelligence Component of the Department.--In this section, the 
term ``intelligence component of the Department'' has the meaning given 
that term in section 2 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
101).

SEC. 315. REPORT ON INTELLIGENCE SHARING WITH UKRAINE.

    (a) Sense of Congress Regarding Intelligence Sharing With 
Ukraine.--Consistent with United States national security interests and 
current law, it is the sense of Congress that the President, working 
with the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, should as quickly as 
possible provide the Government and armed forces of Ukraine with 
appropriate intelligence sharing support.
    (b) Report on Intelligence Sharing With Ukraine.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, 
        the Director of National Intelligence and Secretary of Defense 
        shall conduct an assessment of United States intelligence 
        sharing with the Government of Ukraine and submit to the 
        congressional intelligence committees a report on that 
        assessment.
            (2) Elements.--At a minimum, each report required by 
        paragraph (1) shall provide detailed information related to 
        United States intelligence sharing with the Government of 
        Ukraine for the following matters:
                    (A) Intelligence sharing and related training, 
                equipment, supplies, and services, including the type, 
                quantity, and prioritization of such items.
                    (B) The actual or estimated date that the 
                Government of the United States has provided or plans 
                to provide the Government of Ukraine with intelligence 
                and related training, equipment, supplies, and 
                services.
                    (C) An assessment of the types and quantities of 
                assistance to the Government of Ukraine that would most 
                effectively improve the readiness and capabilities of 
                the intelligence service of Ukraine.
                    (D) An assessment of the measures necessary to 
                protect any United States personnel that may be made 
                available to the Government of Ukraine.
                    (E) A description of the intelligence sharing the 
                Government of the United States has conducted with the 
                Government of Ukraine during the previous 6-month 
                period.
                    (F) A description of the intelligence sharing the 
                Government of the United States plans to conduct with 
                the Government of Ukraine during the following 1-year 
                period.
                    (G) An assessment of the intelligence and military 
                assistance, including equipment, supplies, and 
                weaponry, provided by the Government of the Russian 
                Federation to irregular forces in Ukraine since 
                February 22, 2014.
            (3) Termination.--The requirements of this subsection shall 
        terminate on January 31, 2017.

SEC. 316. REPORT ON POLITICAL PRISON CAMPS IN NORTH KOREA.

    (a) In General.--The Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a report on political prison 
camps in North Korea.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall--
            (1) describe the actions the United States is taking to 
        support implementation of the recommendations of the United 
        Nations Commission of Inquiry on Human Rights in the Democratic 
        People's Republic of Korea, including the eventual 
        establishment of a tribunal to hold individuals accountable for 
        abuses; and
            (2) include, with respect to each political prison camp in 
        North Korea to the extent information is available--
                    (A) the estimated prisoner population of each such 
                camp;
                    (B) the geographical coordinates of each such camp;
                    (C) the reasons for confinement of the prisoners at 
                each such camp;
                    (D) a description of the primary industries and 
                products made at each such camp, and the end users of 
                any goods produced in such camp;
                    (E) information regarding involvement of any non-
                North Korean entity or individual involved in the 
                operations of each such camp, including as an end user 
                or source of any good or products used in, or produced 
                by, in such camp;
                    (F) information identifying individuals and 
                agencies responsible for conditions in each such camp 
                at all levels of the Government of North Korea;
                    (G) a description of the conditions under which 
                prisoners are confined, with respect to the adequacy of 
                food, shelter, medical care, working conditions, and 
                reports of ill-treatment of prisoners, at each such 
                camp; and
                    (H) unclassified imagery, including satellite 
                imagery, of each such camp.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in an unclassified form and may include a classified annex if 
necessary.
                                                       Calendar No. 519

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2741

                          [Report No. 113-233]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2015 for intelligence and 
 intelligence-related activities of the United States Government, the 
   Community Management Account, and the Central Intelligence Agency 
       Retirement and Disability System, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 31, 2014

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
