
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 300 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 300

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 17, 2013.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2668) to delay the application of the 
individual health insurance mandate. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of 
order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and 
Means; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2667) to delay the application of the 
employer health insurance mandate, and for other purposes. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any 
amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one 
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3. (a) In the engrossment of H.R. 2668, the Clerk shall--
            (1) add the text of H.R. 2667, as passed by the House, as new matter 
        at the end of H.R. 2668;
            (2) conform the title of H.R. 2668 to reflect the addition of the 
        text of H.R. 2667, as passed by the House, to the engrossment;
            (3) assign appropriate designations to provisions within the 
        engrossment; and
            (4) conform cross-references and provisions for short titles within 
        the engrossment.
    (b) Upon the addition of the text of H.R. 2667, as passed by the House, to 
the engrossment of H.R. 2668, H.R. 2667 shall be laid on the table.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
