
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 680 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 680

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 24, 2014.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3393) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to consolidate certain tax benefits for educational expenses, and for other 
purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and 
Means now printed in the bill, modified by the amendment printed in the report 
of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be considered as 
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further 
amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one 
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with 
or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 4935) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
make improvements to the child tax credit. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of 
a substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and Means now printed in the 
bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules 
Committee Print 113-54 shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, 
as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and 
Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3. (a) In the engrossment of H.R. 3393 the Clerk shall--
            (1) add the text of H.R. 4935, as passed by the House, as new matter 
        at the end of H.R. 3393;
            (2) conform the title of H.R. 3393 to reflect the addition of H.R. 
        4935, as passed by the House, to the engrossment;
            (3) assign appropriate designations to provisions within the 
        engrossment; and
            (4) conform provisions for short titles within the engrossment.
    (b) Upon the addition of the text of H.R. 4935, as passed by the House, to 
the engrossment of H.R. 3393, H.R. 4935 shall be laid on the table.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
