
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 568 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 568

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                           May 7, 2014.
    Resolved, That if House Report 113-415 is called up by direction of the 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform: (a) all points of order against 
the report are waived and the report shall be considered as read; and
     (b)(1) an accompanying resolution offered by direction of the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform shall be considered as read and shall not be 
subject to a point of order; and
    (2) the previous question shall be considered as ordered on such resolution 
to adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the question 
except: (i) 50 minutes of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform or 
their respective designees; (ii) after conclusion of debate one motion to refer 
if offered by Representative Cummings of Maryland or his designee which shall be 
separately debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent; and (iii) one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without 
intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the resolution (H. 
Res. 565) calling on Attorney General Eric H. Holder, Jr., to appoint a special 
counsel to investigate the targeting of conservative nonprofit groups by the 
Internal Revenue Service. The resolution shall be considered as read. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the resolution to adoption 
without intervening motion or demand for division of the question except 40 
minutes of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
