
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 391 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 391

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      October 29, 2013.
    Resolved, That upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 992) to amend provisions in section 716 of 
the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act relating to 
Federal assistance for swaps entities. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of 
order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided among and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Agriculture and the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Financial Services; (2) one motion 
to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 2374) to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
to provide protections for retail customers, and for other purposes. All points 
of order against consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the amendment 
in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Financial Services 
now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting 
of the text of Rules Committee Print 113-23 shall be considered as adopted. The 
bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment 
thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Financial Services; (2) the further amendment printed in the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, if offered by 
Representative George Miller of California or his designee, which shall be in 
order without intervention of any point of order, shall be considered as read, 
shall be separately debatable for 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, and shall not be subject to a demand for division 
of the question; and (3) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  Notwithstanding section 1002 of the Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2014--
     (a) a motion to proceed under such section--
            (1) may be offered even if the committee to which a joint resolution 
        has been referred has not reported or been discharged; and
            (2) shall be in order only on the legislative day of Tuesday, 
        October 29, 2013, or the legislative day of Wednesday, October 30, 2013; 
        and
    (b) a joint resolution under such section shall be debatable for one hour 
equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent.
    Sec. 4.  On any legislative day during the period from October 31, 2013, 
through November 11, 2013--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved;
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 5.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 4 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
