
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 2170 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2170

  To free the private sector to harness domestic energy resources to 
  create jobs and generate economic growth by removing statutory and 
                        administrative barriers.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 27, 2014

   Mr. Cruz introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To free the private sector to harness domestic energy resources to 
  create jobs and generate economic growth by removing statutory and 
                        administrative barriers.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``American Energy 
Renaissance Act of 2014''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
               TITLE I--EXPANDING AMERICAN ENERGY EXPORTS

Sec. 1001. Finding.
Sec. 1002. Natural gas exports.
Sec. 1003. Crude oil exports.
Sec. 1004. Coal exports.
        TITLE II--IMPROVING NORTH AMERICAN ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE

            Subtitle A--North American Energy Infrastructure

Sec. 2001. Finding.
Sec. 2002. Definitions.
Sec. 2003. Authorization of certain energy infrastructure projects at 
                            the national boundary of the United States.
Sec. 2004. Transmission of electric energy to Canada and Mexico.
Sec. 2005. Effective date; rulemaking deadlines.
                Subtitle B--Keystone XL Permit Approval

Sec. 2011. Findings.
Sec. 2012. Keystone XL permit approval.
               TITLE III--OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LEASING

Sec. 3001. Finding.
Sec. 3002. Extension of leasing program.
Sec. 3003. Lease sales.
Sec. 3004. Applications for permits to drill.
Sec. 3005. Lease sales for certain areas.
            TITLE IV--UTILIZING AMERICA'S ONSHORE RESOURCES

Sec. 4001. Findings.
Sec. 4002. State option for energy development.
                Subtitle A--Energy Development by States

Sec. 4011. Definitions.
Sec. 4012. State programs.
Sec. 4013. Leasing, permitting, and regulatory programs.
Sec. 4014. Judicial review.
Sec. 4015. Administrative Procedure Act.
          Subtitle B--Onshore Oil and Gas Permit Streamlining

                 Part I--Oil and Gas Leasing Certainty

Sec. 4021. Minimum acreage requirement for onshore lease sales.
Sec. 4022. Leasing certainty.
Sec. 4023. Leasing consistency.
Sec. 4024. Reduce redundant policies.
Sec. 4025. Streamlined congressional notification.
        Part II--Application for Permits To Drill Process Reform

Sec. 4031. Permit to drill application timeline.
Sec. 4032. Administrative protest documentation reform.
Sec. 4033. Improved Federal energy permit coordination.
Sec. 4034. Administration.
                          Part III--Oil Shale

Sec. 4041. Effectiveness of oil shale regulations, amendments to 
                            resource management plans, and record of 
                            decision.
Sec. 4042. Oil shale leasing.
          Part IV--National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Access

Sec. 4051. Sense of Congress and reaffirming national policy for the 
                            National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska.
Sec. 4052. National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska: lease sales.
Sec. 4053. National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska: planning and 
                            permitting pipeline and road construction.
Sec. 4054. Issuance of a new integrated activity plan and environmental 
                            impact statement.
Sec. 4055. Departmental accountability for development.
Sec. 4056. Deadlines under new proposed integrated activity plan.
Sec. 4057. Updated resource assessment.
                    Part V--Miscellaneous Provisions

Sec. 4061. Sanctions.
Sec. 4062. Internet-based onshore oil and gas lease sales.
                        Part VI--Judicial Review

Sec. 4071. Definitions.
Sec. 4072. Exclusive venue for certain civil actions relating to 
                            covered energy projects.
Sec. 4073. Timely filing.
Sec. 4074. Expedition in hearing and determining the action.
Sec. 4075. Limitation on injunction and prospective relief.
Sec. 4076. Limitation on attorneys' fees and court costs.
Sec. 4077. Legal standing.
                 TITLE V--ADDITIONAL ONSHORE RESOURCES

       Subtitle A--Leasing Program for Land Within Coastal Plain

Sec. 5001. Finding.
Sec. 5002. Definitions.
Sec. 5003. Leasing program for land on the Coastal Plain.
Sec. 5004. Lease sales.
Sec. 5005. Grant of leases by the Secretary.
Sec. 5006. Lease terms and conditions.
Sec. 5007. Coastal Plain environmental protection.
Sec. 5008. Expedited judicial review.
Sec. 5009. Treatment of revenues.
Sec. 5010. Rights-of-way across the Coastal Plain.
Sec. 5011. Conveyance.
                   Subtitle B--Native American Energy

Sec. 5021. Findings.
Sec. 5022. Appraisals.
Sec. 5023. Standardization.
Sec. 5024. Environmental reviews of major Federal actions on Indian 
                            land.
Sec. 5025. Judicial review.
Sec. 5026. Tribal resource management plans.
Sec. 5027. Leases of restricted lands for the Navajo Nation.
Sec. 5028. Nonapplicability of certain rules.
              Subtitle C--Additional Regulatory Provisions

           Part I--State Authority Over Hydraulic Fracturing

Sec. 5031. Finding.
Sec. 5032. State authority.
                   Part II--Miscellaneous Provisions

Sec. 5041. Environmental legal fees.
Sec. 5042. Master leasing plans.
        TITLE VI--IMPROVING AMERICA'S DOMESTIC REFINING CAPACITY

                 Subtitle A--Refinery Permitting Reform

Sec. 6001. Finding.
Sec. 6002. Definitions.
Sec. 6003. Streamlining of refinery permitting process.
             Subtitle B--Repeal of Renewable Fuel Standard

Sec. 6011. Findings.
Sec. 6012. Phase out of renewable fuel standard.
                   TITLE VII--STOPPING EPA OVERREACH

Sec. 7001. Findings.
Sec. 7002. Clarification of Federal regulatory authority to exclude 
                            greenhouse gases from regulation under the 
                            Clean Air Act.
Sec. 7003. Jobs analysis for all EPA regulations.
                     TITLE VIII--DEBT FREEDOM FUND

Sec. 8001. Findings.
Sec. 8002. Debt freedom fund.

               TITLE I--EXPANDING AMERICAN ENERGY EXPORTS

SEC. 1001. FINDING.

    Congress finds that opening up energy exports will contribute to 
economic development, private sector job growth, and continued growth 
in American energy production.

SEC. 1002. NATURAL GAS EXPORTS.

    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that expanding natural gas exports 
will lead to increased investment and development of domestic supplies 
of natural gas that will contribute to job growth and economic 
development.
    (b) Natural Gas Exports.--Section 3(c) of the Natural Gas Act (15 
U.S.C. 717b(c)) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``or any other nation not excluded by this 
        section'' after ``trade in natural gas'';
            (2) by striking ``(c) For purposes'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(c) Expedited Application and Approval Process.--
            ``(1) In general.--For purposes''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Exclusions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Any nation subject to sanctions 
                or trade restrictions imposed by the United States is 
                excluded from expedited approval under paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) Designation by president or congress.--The 
                President or Congress may designate nations that may be 
                excluded from expedited approval under paragraph (1) 
                for reasons of national security.
            ``(3) Order not required.--No order is required under 
        subsection (a) to authorize the export or import of any natural 
        gas to or from Canada or Mexico.''.

SEC. 1003. CRUDE OIL EXPORTS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the restrictions on crude oil exports from the 1970s 
        are no longer necessary due to the technological advances that 
        have increased the domestic supply of crude oil; and
            (2) repealing restrictions on crude oil exports will 
        contribute to job growth and economic development.
    (b) Repeal of Presidential Authority To Restrict Oil Exports.--
            (1) In general.--Section 103 of the Energy Policy and 
        Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6212) is repealed.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Section 12 of the Alaska Natural Gas 
                Transportation Act of 1976 (15 U.S.C. 719j) is 
                amended--
                            (i) by striking ``and section 103 of the 
                        Energy Policy and Conservation Act''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``such Acts'' and 
                        inserting ``that Act''.
                    (B) The Energy Policy and Conservation Act is 
                amended--
                            (i) in section 251 (42 U.S.C. 6271)--
                                    (I) by striking subsection (d); and
                                    (II) by redesignating subsection 
                                (e) as subsection (d); and
                            (ii) in section 523(a)(1) (42 U.S.C. 
                        6393(a)(1)), by striking ``(other than section 
                        103 thereof)''.
    (c) Repeal of Limitations on Exports of Oil.--
            (1) In general.--Section 28 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 
        U.S.C. 185) is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (u); and
                    (B) by redesignating subsections (v) through (y) as 
                subsections (u) through (x), respectively.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Section 1107(c) of the Alaska National Interest 
                Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3167(c)) is amended 
                by striking ``(u) through (y)'' and inserting ``(u) 
                through (x)''.
                    (B) Section 23 of the Deep Water Port Act of 1974 
                (33 U.S.C. 1522) is repealed.
                    (C) Section 203(c) of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline 
                Authorization Act (43 U.S.C. 1652(c)) is amended in the 
                first sentence by striking ``(w)(2), and (x))'' and 
                inserting ``(v)(2), and (w))''.
                    (D) Section 509(c) of the Public Utility Regulatory 
                Policies Act of 1978 (43 U.S.C. 2009(c)) is amended by 
                striking ``subsection (w)(2)'' and inserting 
                ``subsection (v)(2)''.
    (d) Repeal of Limitations on Export of OCS Oil or Gas.--Section 28 
of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1354) is repealed.
    (e) Termination of Limitation on Exportation of Crude Oil.--Section 
7(d) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. App. 2406(d)) 
(as in effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers 
Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)) shall have no force or effect.
    (f) Clarification of Crude Oil Regulation.--
            (1) In general.--Section 754.2 of title 15, Code of Federal 
        Regulations (relating to crude oil) shall have no force or 
        effect.
            (2) Crude oil license requirements.--The Bureau of Industry 
        and Security of the Department of Commerce shall grant licenses 
        to export to a country crude oil (as the term is defined in 
        subsection (a) of the regulation referred to in paragraph (1)) 
        (as in effect on the date that is 1 day before the date of 
        enactment of this Act) unless--
                    (A) the country is subject to sanctions or trade 
                restrictions imposed by the United States; or
                    (B) the President or Congress has designated the 
                country as subject to exclusion for reasons of national 
                security.

SEC. 1004. COAL EXPORTS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) increased international demand for coal is an 
        opportunity to support jobs and promote economic growth in the 
        United States; and
            (2) exports of coal should not be unreasonably restricted 
        or delayed.
    (b) NEPA Review for Coal Exports.--In completing an environmental 
impact statement or similar analysis required under the National 
Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for an 
approval or permit for coal export terminals, or transportation of coal 
to coal export terminals, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the 
Chief of Engineers--
            (1) may only take into account domestic environmental 
        impacts; and
            (2) may not take into account any impacts resulting from 
        the final use overseas of the exported coal.

        TITLE II--IMPROVING NORTH AMERICAN ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE

            Subtitle A--North American Energy Infrastructure

SEC. 2001. FINDING.

    Congress finds that the United States should establish a more 
efficient, transparent, and modern process for the construction, 
connection, operation, and maintenance of oil and natural gas pipelines 
and electric transmission facilities for the import and export of oil, 
natural gas, and electricity to and from Canada and Mexico, in pursuit 
of a more secure and efficient North American energy market.

SEC. 2002. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Electric reliability organization.--The term ``Electric 
        Reliability Organization'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 215(a) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 824o(a)).
            (2) Independent system operator.--The term ``Independent 
        System Operator'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 
        of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796).
            (3) Natural gas.--The term ``natural gas'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 2 of the Natural Gas Act (15 U.S.C. 
        717a).
            (4) Oil.--The term ``oil'' means petroleum or a petroleum 
        product.
            (5) Regional entity.--The term ``regional entity'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 215(a) of the Federal Power 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 824o(a)).
            (6) Regional transmission organization.--The term 
        ``Regional Transmission Organization'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 3 of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796).

SEC. 2003. AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS AT 
              THE NATIONAL BOUNDARY OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Authorization.--Except as provided in subsections (d) and (e), 
no person may construct, connect, operate, or maintain an oil or 
natural gas pipeline or electric transmission facility at the national 
boundary of the United States for the import or export of oil, natural 
gas, or electricity to or from Canada or Mexico without obtaining 
approval of the construction, connection, operation, or maintenance 
under this section.
    (b) Approval.--
            (1) Requirement.--Not later than 120 days after receiving a 
        request for approval of construction, connection, operation, or 
        maintenance under this section, the relevant official 
        identified under paragraph (2), in consultation with 
        appropriate Federal agencies, shall approve the request unless 
        the relevant official finds that the construction, connection, 
        operation, or maintenance harms the national security interests 
        of the United States.
            (2) Relevant official.--The relevant official referred to 
        in paragraph (1) is--
                    (A) the Secretary of Commerce with respect to oil 
                pipelines;
                    (B) the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission with 
                respect to natural gas pipelines; and
                    (C) the Secretary of Energy with respect to 
                electric transmission facilities.
            (3) Approval not major federal action.--An approval of 
        construction, connection, operation, or maintenance under 
        paragraph (1) shall not be considered a major Federal action 
        under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
        4321 et seq.).
            (4) Additional requirement for electric transmission 
        facilities.--In the case of a request for approval of the 
        construction, connection, operation, or maintenance of an 
        electric transmission facility, the Secretary of Energy shall 
        require, as a condition of approval of the request under 
        paragraph (1), that the electric transmission facility be 
        constructed, connected, operated, or maintained consistent with 
        all applicable policies and standards of--
                    (A) the Electric Reliability Organization and the 
                applicable regional entity; and
                    (B) any Regional Transmission Organization or 
                Independent System Operator with operational or 
                functional control over the electric transmission 
                facility.
    (c) No Other Approval Required.--No Presidential permit (or similar 
permit) required under Executive Order 13337 (3 U.S.C. 301 note; 69 
Fed. Reg. 25299 (April 30, 2004)), Executive Order 11423 (3 U.S.C. 301 
note; 33 Fed. Reg. 11741 (August 16, 1968)), section 301 of title 3, 
United States Code, Executive Order 12038 (43 Fed. Reg. 3674 (January 
26, 1978)), Executive Order 10485 (18 Fed. Reg. 5397 (September 9, 
1953)), or any other Executive order shall be necessary for 
construction, connection, operation, or maintenance to which this 
section applies.
    (d) Exclusions.--This section shall not apply to--
            (1) any construction, connection, operation, or maintenance 
        of an oil or natural gas pipeline or electric transmission 
        facility at the national boundary of the United States for the 
        import or export of oil, natural gas, or electricity to or from 
        Canada or Mexico if--
                    (A) the pipeline or facility is operating at the 
                national boundary for that import or export as of the 
                date of enactment of this Act;
                    (B) a permit described in subsection (c) for the 
                construction, connection, operation, or maintenance has 
                been issued;
                    (C) approval of the construction, connection, 
                operation, or maintenance has previously been obtained 
                under this section; or
                    (D) an application for a permit described in 
                subsection (c) for the construction, connection, 
                operation, or maintenance is pending on the date of 
                enactment of this Act, until the earlier of--
                            (i) the date on which the application is 
                        denied; and
                            (ii) July 1, 2015; or
            (2) the construction, connection, operation, or maintenance 
        of the Keystone XL pipeline.
    (e) Modifications to Existing Projects.--No approval under this 
section, or permit described in subsection (c), shall be required for 
modifications to construction, connection, operation, or maintenance 
described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of subsection (d)(1), 
including reversal of flow direction, change in ownership, volume 
expansion, downstream or upstream interconnection, or adjustments to 
maintain flow (such as a reduction or increase in the number of pump or 
compressor stations).
    (f) Effect of Other Laws.--Nothing in this section affects the 
application of any other Federal law to a project for which approval of 
construction, connection, operation, or maintenance is sought under 
this section.

SEC. 2004. TRANSMISSION OF ELECTRIC ENERGY TO CANADA AND MEXICO.

    (a) Repeal of Requirement To Secure Order.--Section 202 of the 
Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 824a) is amended by striking subsection 
(e).
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) State regulations.--Section 202 of the Federal Power 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 824a) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as 
                subsections (e) and (f), respectively; and
                    (B) in subsection (e) (as so redesignated), by 
                striking ``insofar as such State regulation does not 
                conflict with the exercise of the Commission's powers 
                under or relating to subsection 202(e)''.
            (2) Seasonal diversity electricity exchange.--Section 
        602(b) of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 
        (16 U.S.C. 824a-4(b)) is amended by striking ``the Commission 
        has conducted hearings and made the findings required under 
        section 202(e) of the Federal Power Act'' and all that follows 
        through the period at the end and inserting ``the Secretary has 
        conducted hearings and finds that the proposed transmission 
        facilities would not impair the sufficiency of electric supply 
        within the United States or would not impede or tend to impede 
        the coordination in the public interest of facilities subject 
        to the jurisdiction of the Secretary.''.

SEC. 2005. EFFECTIVE DATE; RULEMAKING DEADLINES.

    (a) Effective Date.--Sections 2003 and 2004, and the amendments 
made by those sections, shall take effect on July 1, 2015.
    (b) Rulemaking Deadlines.--Each relevant official described in 
section 2003(b)(2) shall--
            (1) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, publish in the Federal Register notice of a proposed 
        rulemaking to carry out the applicable requirements of section 
        2003; and
            (2) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, publish in the Federal Register a final rule to carry 
        out the applicable requirements of section 2003.

                Subtitle B--Keystone XL Permit Approval

SEC. 2011. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) building the Keystone XL pipeline will provide jobs and 
        economic growth to the United States; and
            (2) the Keystone XL pipeline should be approved 
        immediately.

SEC. 2012. KEYSTONE XL PERMIT APPROVAL.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding Executive Order 13337 (3 U.S.C. 
301 note; 69 Fed. Reg. 25299 (April 30, 2004)), Executive Order 11423 
(3 U.S.C. 301 note; 33 Fed. Reg. 11741 (August 16, 1968)), section 301 
of title 3, United States Code, and any other Executive order or 
provision of law, no presidential permit shall be required for the 
pipeline described in the application filed on May 4, 2012, by 
TransCanada Corporation to the Department of State for the northern 
portion of the Keystone XL pipeline from the Canadian border to the 
border between the States of South Dakota and Nebraska.
    (b) Environmental Impact Statement.--The final environmental impact 
statement issued by the Secretary of State on January 31, 2014, 
regarding the pipeline referred to in subsection (a), shall be 
considered to satisfy all requirements of the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
    (c) Critical Habitat.--No area necessary to construct or maintain 
the Keystone XL pipeline shall be considered critical habitat under the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) or any other 
provision of law.
    (d) Permits.--Any Federal permit or authorization issued before the 
date of enactment of this Act for the pipeline and cross-border 
facilities described in subsection (a), and the related facilities in 
the United States, shall remain in effect.
    (e) Federal Judicial Review.--The pipeline and cross-border 
facilities described in subsection (a), and the related facilities in 
the United States, that are approved by this section, and any permit, 
right-of-way, or other action taken to construct or complete the 
project pursuant to Federal law, shall only be subject to judicial 
review on direct appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the 
District of Columbia Circuit.

               TITLE III--OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LEASING

SEC. 3001. FINDING.

    Congress finds that the United States has enormous potential for 
offshore energy development and that the people of the United States 
should have access to the jobs and economic benefits from developing 
those resources.

SEC. 3002. EXTENSION OF LEASING PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (c), the Draft Proposed 
Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program 2010-2015 issued by 
the Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this title as the 
``Secretary'') under section 18 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
Act (43 U.S.C. 1344) shall be considered to be the final oil and gas 
leasing program under that section for the period of fiscal years 2014 
through 2019.
    (b) Final Environmental Impact Statement.--The Secretary is 
considered to have issued a final environmental impact statement for 
the program applicable to the period described in subsection (a) in 
accordance with all requirements under section 102(2)(C) of the 
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)).
    (c) Exceptions.--Lease Sales 214, 232, and 239 shall not be 
included in the final oil and gas leasing program for the period of 
fiscal years 2014 through 2019.

SEC. 3003. LEASE SALES.

    (a) In General.--Except as otherwise provided in this section, not 
later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act and every 
270 days thereafter, the Secretary shall conduct a lease sale in each 
outer Continental Shelf planning area for which the Secretary 
determines that there is a commercial interest in purchasing Federal 
oil and gas leases for production on the outer Continental Shelf.
    (b) Subsequent Determinations and Sales.--If the Secretary 
determines that there is not a commercial interest in purchasing 
Federal oil and gas leases for production on the outer Continental 
Shelf in a planning area under this section, not later than 2 years 
after the date of the determination and every 2 years thereafter, the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) make an additional determination on whether there is a 
        commercial interest in purchasing Federal oil and gas leases 
        for production on the outer Continental Shelf in the planning 
        area; and
            (2) if the Secretary determines that there is a commercial 
        interest under paragraph (1), conduct a lease sale in the 
        planning area.
    (c) Protection of State Interest.--In developing future leasing 
programs, the Secretary shall give deference to affected coastal States 
(as the term is used in the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
U.S.C. 1331 et seq.)) in determining leasing areas to be included in 
the leasing program.
    (d) Petitions.--If a person petitions the Secretary to conduct a 
lease sale for an outer Continental Shelf planning area in which the 
person has a commercial interest, the Secretary shall conduct a lease 
sale for the area in accordance with subsection (a).

SEC. 3004. APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS TO DRILL.

    Section 5 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1334) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(k) Applications for Permits To Drill.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary 
        shall approve or disapprove an application for a permit to 
        drill submitted under this Act not later than 20 days after the 
        date on which the application is submitted to the Secretary.
            ``(2) Disapproval.--If the Secretary disapproves an 
        application for a permit to drill under paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) provide to the applicant a description of the 
                reasons for the disapproval of the application;
                    ``(B) allow the applicant to resubmit an 
                application during the 10-day period beginning on the 
                date of the receipt of the description described in 
                subparagraph (A) by the applicant; and
                    ``(C) approve or disapprove any resubmitted 
                application not later than 10 days after the date on 
                which the application is submitted to the Secretary.''.

SEC. 3005. LEASE SALES FOR CERTAIN AREAS.

    (a) In General.--As soon as practicable but not later than 1 year 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall conduct 
Lease Sale 220 for areas offshore of the State of Virginia.
    (b) Compliance With Other Laws.--For purposes of the lease sale 
described in subsection (a), the environmental impact statement 
prepared under section 3001 shall satisfy the requirements of the 
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
    (c) Energy Projects in Gulf of Mexico.--
            (1) Jurisdiction.--The United States Court of Appeals for 
        the Fifth Circuit shall have exclusive jurisdiction over 
        challenges to offshore energy projects and permits to drill 
        carried out in the Gulf of Mexico.
            (2) Filing deadline.--Any civil action to challenge a 
        project or permit described in paragraph (1) shall be filed not 
        later than 60 days after the date of approval of the project or 
        the issuance of the permit.

            TITLE IV--UTILIZING AMERICA'S ONSHORE RESOURCES

SEC. 4001. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) current policy has failed to take full advantage of the 
        natural resources on Federal land;
            (2) the States should be given the option to lead energy 
        development on all available Federal land in a State; and
            (3) the Federal Government should not inhibit energy 
        development on Federal land.

SEC. 4002. STATE OPTION FOR ENERGY DEVELOPMENT.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, a State may 
elect to control energy development and production on available Federal 
land in accordance with the terms and conditions of subtitle A and the 
amendments made by subtitle A in lieu of being subject to the Federal 
system established under subtitle B and the amendments made by subtitle 
B.

                Subtitle A--Energy Development by States

SEC. 4011. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Available federal land.--The term ``available Federal 
        land'' means any Federal land that, as of the date of enactment 
        of this Act--
                    (A) is located within the boundaries of a State;
                    (B) is not held by the United States in trust for 
                the benefit of a federally recognized Indian tribe;
                    (C) is not a unit of the National Park System;
                    (D) is not a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge 
                System; and
                    (E) is not a congressionally designated wilderness 
                area.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means--
                    (A) a State; and
                    (B) the District of Columbia.

SEC. 4012. STATE PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--A State--
            (1) may establish a program covering the leasing and 
        permitting processes, regulatory requirements, and any other 
        provisions by which the State would exercise the rights of the 
        State to develop all forms of energy resources on available 
        Federal land in the State; and
            (2) as a condition of certification under section 4013(b) 
        shall submit a declaration to the Departments of the Interior, 
        Agriculture, and Energy that a program under paragraph (1) has 
        been established or amended.
    (b) Amendment of Programs.--A State may amend a program developed 
and certified under this subtitle at any time.
    (c) Certification of Amended Programs.--Any program amended under 
subsection (b) shall be certified under section 4013(b).

SEC. 4013. LEASING, PERMITTING, AND REGULATORY PROGRAMS.

    (a) Satisfaction of Federal Requirements.--Each program certified 
under this section shall be considered to satisfy all applicable 
requirements of Federal law (including regulations), including--
            (1) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
        U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
            (2) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et 
        seq.); and
            (3) the National Historic Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 470 
        et seq.).
    (b) Federal Certification and Transfer of Development Rights.--Upon 
submission of a declaration by a State under section 4012(a)(2)--
            (1) the program under section 4012(a)(1) shall be 
        certified; and
            (2) the State shall receive all rights from the Federal 
        Government to develop all forms of energy resources covered by 
        the program.
    (c) Issuance of Permits and Leases.--If a State elects to issue a 
permit or lease for the development of any form of energy resource on 
any available Federal land within the borders of the State in 
accordance with a program certified under subsection (b), the permit or 
lease shall be considered to meet all applicable requirements of 
Federal law (including regulations).

SEC. 4014. JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    Activities carried out in accordance with this subtitle shall not 
be subject to Federal judicial review.

SEC. 4015. ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE ACT.

    Activities carried out in accordance with this subtitle shall not 
be subject to subchapter II of chapter 5, and chapter 7, of title 5, 
United States Code (commonly known as the ``Administrative Procedure 
Act'').

          Subtitle B--Onshore Oil and Gas Permit Streamlining

                 PART I--OIL AND GAS LEASING CERTAINTY

SEC. 4021. MINIMUM ACREAGE REQUIREMENT FOR ONSHORE LEASE SALES.

    Section 17 of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Sec. 17. (a) All lands'' and inserting 
        the following:

``SEC. 17. LEASE OF OIL AND GAS LAND.

    ``(a) Authority of Secretary.--
            ``(1) In general.--All land''; and
            (2) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Minimum acreage requirement for onshore lease 
        sales.--
                    ``(A) In general.--In conducting lease sales under 
                paragraph (1)--
                            ``(i) there shall be a presumption that 
                        nominated land should be leased; and
                            ``(ii) the Secretary of the Interior shall 
                        offer for sale all of the nominated acreage not 
                        previously made available for lease, unless the 
                        Secretary demonstrates by clear and convincing 
                        evidence that an individual lease should not be 
                        granted.
                    ``(B) Administration.--Acreage offered for lease 
                pursuant to this paragraph--
                            ``(i) shall not be subject to protest; and
                            ``(ii) shall be eligible for categorical 
                        exclusions under section 390 of the Energy 
                        Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15942), except 
                        that the categorical exclusions shall not be 
                        subject to the test of extraordinary 
                        circumstances or any other similar regulation 
                        or policy guidance.
                    ``(C) Availability.--In administering this 
                paragraph, the Secretary shall only consider leasing of 
                Federal land that is available for leasing at the time 
                the lease sale occurs.''.

SEC. 4022. LEASING CERTAINTY.

    Section 17(a) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(a)) (as 
amended by section 4061) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Leasing certainty.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior 
                shall not withdraw any covered energy project (as 
                defined in section 4051 of the American Energy 
                Renaissance Act of 2014) issued under this Act without 
                finding a violation of the terms of the lease by the 
                lessee.
                    ``(B) Delay.--The Secretary shall not infringe on 
                lease rights under leases issued under this Act by 
                indefinitely delaying issuance of project approvals, 
                drilling and seismic permits, and rights-of-way for 
                activities under the lease.
                    ``(C) Availability for lease.--Not later than 18 
                months after an area is designated as open under the 
                applicable land use plan, the Secretary shall make 
                available nominated areas for lease using the criteria 
                established under section 2.
                    ``(D) Last payment.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Notwithstanding any 
                        other provision of law, the Secretary shall 
                        issue all leases sold not later than 60 days 
                        after the last payment is made.
                            ``(ii) Cancellation.--The Secretary shall 
                        not cancel or withdraw any lease parcel after a 
                        competitive lease sale has occurred and a 
                        winning bidder has submitted the last payment 
                        for the parcel.
                    ``(E) Protests.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Not later than the end 
                        of the 60-day period beginning on the date a 
                        lease sale is held under this Act, the 
                        Secretary shall adjudicate any lease protests 
                        filed following a lease sale.
                            ``(ii) Unsettled protest.--If, after the 
                        60-day period described in clause (i) any 
                        protest is left unsettled--
                                    ``(I) the protest shall be 
                                considered automatically denied; and
                                    ``(II) the appeal rights of the 
                                protestor shall begin.
                    ``(F) Additional lease stipulations.--No additional 
                lease stipulation may be added after the parcel is sold 
                without consultation and agreement of the lessee, 
                unless the Secretary considers the stipulation as an 
                emergency action to conserve the resources of the 
                United States.''.

SEC. 4023. LEASING CONSISTENCY.

    A Federal land manager shall follow existing resource management 
plans and continue to actively lease in areas designated as open when 
resource management plans are being amended or revised, until such time 
as a new record of decision is signed.

SEC. 4024. REDUCE REDUNDANT POLICIES.

    Bureau of Land Management Instruction Memorandum 2010-117 shall 
have no force or effect.

SEC. 4025. STREAMLINED CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION.

    Section 31(e) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 188(e)) is 
amended in the first sentence of the matter following paragraph (4) by 
striking ``at least thirty days in advance of the reinstatement'' and 
inserting ``in an annual report''.

        PART II--APPLICATION FOR PERMITS TO DRILL PROCESS REFORM

SEC. 4031. PERMIT TO DRILL APPLICATION TIMELINE.

    Section 17(p) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(p)) is 
amended by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) Applications for permits to drill reform and 
        process.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than the end of the 
                30-day period beginning on the date an application for 
                a permit to drill is received by the Secretary, the 
                Secretary shall decide whether to issue the permit.
                    ``(B) Extension.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Secretary may extend 
                        the period described in subparagraph (A) for up 
                        to 2 periods of 15 days each, if the Secretary 
                        has given written notice of the delay to the 
                        applicant.
                            ``(ii) Notice.--The notice shall--
                                    ``(I) be in the form of a letter 
                                from the Secretary or a designee of the 
                                Secretary; and
                                    ``(II) include--
                                            ``(aa) the names and titles 
                                        of the persons processing the 
                                        application;
                                            ``(bb) the specific reasons 
                                        for the delay; and
                                            ``(cc) a specific date a 
                                        final decision on the 
                                        application is expected.
                    ``(C) Notice of reasons for denial.--If the 
                application is denied, the Secretary shall provide the 
                applicant--
                            ``(i) a written statement that provides 
                        clear and comprehensive reasons why the 
                        application was not accepted and detailed 
                        information concerning any deficiencies; and
                            ``(ii) an opportunity to remedy any 
                        deficiencies.
                    ``(D) Application deemed approved.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), if the Secretary has not made a 
                        decision on the application by the end of the 
                        60-day period beginning on the date the 
                        application is received by the Secretary, the 
                        application shall be considered approved.
                            ``(ii) Exceptions.--Clause (i) shall not 
                        apply in cases in which existing reviews under 
                        the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                        (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) or Endangered Species 
                        Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.) are 
                        incomplete.
                    ``(E) Denial of permit.--If the Secretary decides 
                not to issue a permit to drill under this paragraph, 
                the Secretary shall--
                            ``(i) provide to the applicant a 
                        description of the reasons for the denial of 
                        the permit;
                            ``(ii) allow the applicant to resubmit an 
                        application for a permit to drill during the 
                        10-day period beginning on the date the 
                        applicant receives the description of the 
                        denial from the Secretary; and
                            ``(iii) issue or deny any resubmitted 
                        application not later than 10 days after the 
                        date the application is submitted to the 
                        Secretary.
                    ``(F) Fee.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Notwithstanding any 
                        other provision of law, the Secretary shall 
                        collect a single $6,500 permit processing fee 
                        per application from each applicant at the time 
                        the final decision is made whether to issue a 
                        permit under subparagraph (A).
                            ``(ii) Resubmitted application.--The fee 
                        required under clause (i) shall not apply to 
                        any resubmitted application.
                            ``(iii) Treatment of permit processing 
                        fee.--Subject to appropriation, of all fees 
                        collected under this paragraph for each fiscal 
                        year, 50 percent shall be--
                                    ``(I) transferred to the field 
                                office at which the fees are collected; 
                                and
                                    ``(II) used to process protests, 
                                leases, and permits under this Act.''.

SEC. 4032. ADMINISTRATIVE PROTEST DOCUMENTATION REFORM.

    Section 17(p) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(p)) (as 
amended by section 4031) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Protest fee.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall collect a 
                $5,000 documentation fee to accompany each 
                administrative protest for a lease, right-of-way, or 
                application for a permit to drill.
                    ``(B) Treatment of fees.--Subject to appropriation, 
                of all fees collected under this paragraph for each 
                fiscal year, 50 percent shall--
                            ``(i) remain in the field office at which 
                        the fees are collected; and
                            ``(ii) be used to process protests.''.

SEC. 4033. IMPROVED FEDERAL ENERGY PERMIT COORDINATION.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Energy project.--The term ``energy project'' includes 
        any oil, natural gas, coal, or other energy project, as defined 
        by the Secretary.
            (2) Project.--The term ``Project'' means the Federal Permit 
        Streamlining Project established under subsection (b).
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a Federal Permit 
Streamlining Project in each Bureau of Land Management field office 
with responsibility for permitting energy projects on Federal land.
    (c) Memorandum of Understanding.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall enter into a 
        memorandum of understanding for purposes of carrying out this 
        section with--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture;
                    (B) the Administrator of the Environmental 
                Protection Agency; and
                    (C) the Chief of Engineers.
            (2) State participation.--The Secretary may request that 
        the Governor of any State with energy projects on Federal land 
        to be a signatory to the memorandum of understanding.
    (d) Designation of Qualified Staff.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        the signing of the memorandum of understanding under subsection 
        (c), each Federal signatory party shall, if appropriate, assign 
        to each Bureau of Land Management field office an employee who 
        has expertise in the regulatory issues relating to the office 
        in which the employee is employed, including, as applicable, 
        particular expertise in--
                    (A) the consultations and the preparation of 
                biological opinions under section 7 of the Endangered 
                Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1536);
                    (B) permits under section 404 of the Federal Water 
                Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1344);
                    (C) regulatory matters under the Clean Air Act (42 
                U.S.C. 7401 et seq.);
                    (D) planning under the National Forest Management 
                Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.); and
                    (E) the preparation of analyses under the National 
                Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                seq.).
            (2) Duties.--Each employee assigned under paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    (A) not later than 90 days after the date of 
                assignment, report to the Bureau of Land Management 
                Field Managers in the office to which the employee is 
                assigned;
                    (B) be responsible for all issues relating to the 
                energy projects that arise under the authorities of the 
                home agency of the employee; and
                    (C) participate as part of the team of personnel 
                working on proposed energy projects, planning, and 
                environmental analyses on Federal land.
    (e) Additional Personnel.--The Secretary shall assign to each 
Bureau of Land Management field office described in subsection (b) any 
additional personnel that are necessary to ensure the effective 
approval and implementation of energy projects administered by the 
Bureau of Land Management field office, including inspection and 
enforcement relating to energy development on Federal land, in 
accordance with the multiple use mandate of the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).
    (f) Funding.--Funding for the additional personnel shall come from 
the Department of the Interior reforms under paragraph (2) of section 
17(p) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 226(p)) (as amended by 
section 4031 and section 4032).
    (g) Savings Provision.--Nothing in this section affects--
            (1) the operation of any Federal or State law; or
            (2) any delegation of authority made by the head of a 
        Federal agency any employee of which is participating in the 
        Project.

SEC. 4034. ADMINISTRATION.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall not require a finding of extraordinary circumstances in 
administering section 390 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
15942).

                          PART III--OIL SHALE

SEC. 4041. EFFECTIVENESS OF OIL SHALE REGULATIONS, AMENDMENTS TO 
              RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PLANS, AND RECORD OF DECISION.

    (a) Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
        (including regulations), the final regulations regarding oil 
        shale management published by the Bureau of Land Management on 
        November 18, 2008 (73 Fed. Reg. 69414), shall be considered to 
        satisfy all legal and procedural requirements under any law, 
        including--
                    (A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                    (B) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                1531 et seq.); and
                    (C) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
            (2) Implementation.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        implement the regulations described in paragraph (1) (including 
        the oil shale leasing program authorized by the regulations) 
        without any other administrative action necessary.
    (b) Amendments to Resource Management Plans and Record of 
Decision.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
        (including regulations) to the contrary, the Approved Resource 
        Management Plan Amendments/Record of Decision for Oil Shale and 
        Tar Sands Resources to Address Land Use Allocations in 
        Colorado, Utah, and Wyoming and the Final Programmatic 
        Environmental Impact Statement of the Bureau of Land 
        Management, as in effect on November 17, 2008, shall be 
        considered to satisfy all legal and procedural requirements 
        under any law, including--
                    (A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                    (B) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                1531 et seq.); and
                    (C) the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
            (2) Implementation.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        implement the oil shale leasing program authorized by the 
        regulations described in paragraph (1) in those areas covered 
        by the resource management plans covered by the amendments, and 
        covered by the record of decision, described in paragraph (1) 
        without any other administrative action necessary.

SEC. 4042. OIL SHALE LEASING.

    (a) Additional Research and Development Lease Sales.--Not later 
than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
the Interior shall hold a lease sale offering an additional 10 parcels 
for lease for research, development, and demonstration of oil shale 
resources, under the terms offered in the solicitation of bids for such 
leases published on January 15, 2009 (74 Fed. Reg. 2611).
    (b) Commercial Lease Sales.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2016, the 
        Secretary of the Interior shall hold not less than 5 separate 
        commercial lease sales in areas considered to have the most 
        potential for oil shale development, as determined by the 
        Secretary, in areas nominated through public comment.
            (2) Administration.--Each lease sale shall be--
                    (A) for an area of not less than 25,000 acres; and
                    (B) in multiple lease blocs.

          PART IV--NATIONAL PETROLEUM RESERVE IN ALASKA ACCESS

SEC. 4051. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND REAFFIRMING NATIONAL POLICY FOR THE 
              NATIONAL PETROLEUM RESERVE IN ALASKA.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska remains 
        explicitly designated, both in name and legal status, for 
        purposes of providing oil and natural gas resources to the 
        United States; and
            (2) accordingly, the national policy is to actively advance 
        oil and gas development within the Reserve by facilitating the 
        expeditious exploration, production, and transportation of oil 
        and natural gas from and through the Reserve.

SEC. 4052. NATIONAL PETROLEUM RESERVE IN ALASKA: LEASE SALES.

    Section 107 of the Naval Petroleum Reserves Production Act of 1976 
(42 U.S.C. 6506a) is amended by striking subsection (a) and inserting 
the following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct an expeditious 
program of competitive leasing of oil and gas in the Reserve--
            ``(1) in accordance with this Act; and
            ``(2) that shall include at least 1 lease sale annually in 
        the areas of the Reserve most likely to produce commercial 
        quantities of oil and natural gas for each of calendar years 
        2014 through 2023.''.

SEC. 4053. NATIONAL PETROLEUM RESERVE IN ALASKA: PLANNING AND 
              PERMITTING PIPELINE AND ROAD CONSTRUCTION.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with other appropriate 
Federal agencies, shall facilitate and ensure permits, in a timely and 
environmentally responsible manner, for all surface development 
activities, including for the construction of pipelines and roads, 
necessary--
            (1) to develop and bring into production any areas within 
        the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska that are subject to 
        oil and gas leases; and
            (2) to transport oil and gas from and through the National 
        Petroleum Reserve in Alaska in the most direct manner possible 
        to existing transportation or processing infrastructure on the 
        North Slope of Alaska.
    (b) Timeline.--The Secretary shall ensure that any Federal 
permitting agency shall issue permits in accordance with the following 
timeline:
            (1) Permits for the construction described in subsection 
        (a) for transportation of oil and natural gas produced under 
        existing Federal oil and gas leases with respect to which the 
        Secretary has issued a permit to drill shall be approved not 
        later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Permits for the construction described in subsection 
        (a) for transportation of oil and natural gas produced under 
        Federal oil and gas leases shall be approved not later than 180 
        days after the date on which a request for a permit to drill is 
        submitted to the Secretary.
    (c) Plan.--To ensure timely future development of the National 
Petroleum Reserve in Alaska, not later than 270 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to 
Congress a plan for approved rights-of-way for a plan for pipeline, 
road, and any other surface infrastructure that may be necessary 
infrastructure that will ensure that all leasable tracts in the Reserve 
are within 25 miles of an approved road and pipeline right-of-way that 
can serve future development of the Reserve.

SEC. 4054. ISSUANCE OF A NEW INTEGRATED ACTIVITY PLAN AND ENVIRONMENTAL 
              IMPACT STATEMENT.

    (a) Issuance of New Integrated Activity Plan.--Not later than 180 
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall issue--
            (1) a new proposed integrated activity plan from among the 
        nonadopted alternatives in the National Petroleum Reserve 
        Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision issued by 
        the Secretary of the Interior and dated February 21, 2013; and
            (2) an environmental impact statement under section 
        102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
        U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)) for issuance of oil and gas leases in the 
        National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska to promote efficient and 
        maximum development of oil and natural gas resources of the 
        Reserve.
    (b) Nullification of Existing Record of Decision, IAP, and EIS.--
Except as provided in subsection (a), the National Petroleum Reserve-
Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of Decision issued by the 
Secretary of the Interior and dated February 21, 2013, including the 
integrated activity plan and environmental impact statement referred to 
in that record of decision, shall have no force or effect.

SEC. 4055. DEPARTMENTAL ACCOUNTABILITY FOR DEVELOPMENT.

    The Secretary of the Interior shall promulgate regulations not 
later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act that 
establish clear requirements to ensure that the Department of the 
Interior is supporting development of oil and gas leases in the 
National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska.

SEC. 4056. DEADLINES UNDER NEW PROPOSED INTEGRATED ACTIVITY PLAN.

    At a minimum, the new proposed integrated activity plan issued 
under section 4054(a)(1) shall--
            (1) require the Department of the Interior to respond 
        within 5 business days to a person who submits an application 
        for a permit for development of oil and natural gas leases in 
        the National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska acknowledging receipt of 
        the application; and
            (2) establish a timeline for the processing of each 
        application that--
                    (A) specifies deadlines for decisions and actions 
                on permit applications; and
                    (B) provides that the period for issuing a permit 
                after the date on which the application is submitted 
                shall not exceed 60 days without the concurrence of the 
                applicant.

SEC. 4057. UPDATED RESOURCE ASSESSMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall complete a 
comprehensive assessment of all technically recoverable fossil fuel 
resources within the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska, including 
all conventional and unconventional oil and natural gas.
    (b) Cooperation and Consultation.--The assessment required by 
subsection (a) shall be carried out by the United States Geological 
Survey in cooperation and consultation with the State of Alaska and the 
American Association of Petroleum Geologists.
    (c) Timing.--The assessment required by subsection (a) shall be 
completed not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    (d) Funding.--In carrying out this section, the United States 
Geological Survey may cooperatively use resources and funds provided by 
the State of Alaska.

                    PART V--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 4061. SANCTIONS.

    Nothing in this title authorizes the issuance of a lease under the 
Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) to any person designated 
for the imposition of sanctions pursuant to--
            (1) the Syria Accountability and Lebanese Sovereignty 
        Restoration Act of 2003 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note; Public Law 108-
        175);
            (2) the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and 
        Divestiture Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8501 et seq.);
            (3) section 1245 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8513a);
            (4) the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 
        2012 (22 U.S.C. 8701 et seq.);
            (5) the Iran Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 
        (22 U.S.C. 8801 et seq.);
            (6) the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; 
        Public Law 104-172);
            (7) Executive Order 13224 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
        blocking property and prohibiting transactions with persons who 
        commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism);
            (8) Executive Order 13338 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
        blocking property of certain persons and prohibiting the export 
        of certain goods to Syria);
            (9) Executive Order 13622 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
        authorizing additional sanctions with respect to Iran);
            (10) Executive Order 13628 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating 
        to authorizing additional sanctions with respect to Iran); or
            (11) Executive Order 13645 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating 
        to authorizing additional sanctions with respect to Iran).

SEC. 4062. INTERNET-BASED ONSHORE OIL AND GAS LEASE SALES.

    (a) Authorization.--Section 17(b)(1) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 
U.S.C. 226(b)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), in the third sentence, by 
        inserting ``, except as provided in subparagraph (C)'' after 
        ``by oral bidding''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(C) Internet-Based Bidding.--
            ``(i) In general.--In order to diversify and expand the 
        onshore leasing program of the United States to ensure the best 
        return to the Federal taxpayer, reduce fraud, and secure the 
        leasing process, the Secretary may conduct onshore lease sales 
        through Internet-based bidding methods.
            ``(ii) Conclusion.--Each individual Internet-based lease 
        sale shall conclude not later than 7 days after the date on 
        which the sale begins.''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which the 
tenth Internet-based lease sale conducted under the amendment made by 
subsection (a) concludes, the Secretary of the Interior shall analyze 
the first 10 Internet-based lease sales and report to Congress the 
findings of the analysis, including--
            (1) estimates on increases or decreases in Internet-based 
        lease sales, compared to sales conducted by oral bidding, in--
                    (A) the number of bidders;
                    (B) the average amount of bid;
                    (C) the highest amount bid; and
                    (D) the lowest bid;
            (2) an estimate on the total cost or savings to the 
        Department of the Interior as a result of Internet-based lease 
        sales, compared to sales conducted by oral bidding; and
            (3) an evaluation of the demonstrated or expected 
        effectiveness of different structures for lease sales which may 
        provide an opportunity to better--
                    (A) maximize bidder participation;
                    (B) ensure the highest return to the Federal 
                taxpayers;
                    (C) minimize opportunities for fraud or collusion; 
                and
                    (D) ensure the security and integrity of the 
                leasing process.

                        PART VI--JUDICIAL REVIEW

SEC. 4071. DEFINITIONS.

    In this part:
            (1) Covered civil action.--The term ``covered civil 
        action'' means a civil action containing a claim under section 
        702 of title 5, United States Code, regarding agency action (as 
        defined for the purposes of that section) affecting a covered 
        energy project on Federal land.
            (2) Covered energy project.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``covered energy 
                project'' means--
                            (i) the leasing of Federal land for the 
                        exploration, development, production, 
                        processing, or transmission of oil, natural 
                        gas, wind, or any other source of energy; and
                            (ii) any action under the lease.
                    (B) Exclusion.--The term ``covered energy project'' 
                does not include any dispute between the parties to a 
                lease regarding the obligations under the lease, 
                including any alleged breach of the lease.

SEC. 4072. EXCLUSIVE VENUE FOR CERTAIN CIVIL ACTIONS RELATING TO 
              COVERED ENERGY PROJECTS.

    Venue for any covered civil action shall lie in the United States 
district court in which the covered energy project or lease exists or 
is proposed.

SEC. 4073. TIMELY FILING.

    To ensure timely redress by the courts, a covered civil action 
shall be filed not later than the end of the 90-day period beginning on 
the date of the final Federal agency action to which the covered civil 
action relates.

SEC. 4074. EXPEDITION IN HEARING AND DETERMINING THE ACTION.

    The court shall endeavor to hear and determine any covered civil 
action as expeditiously as practicable.

SEC. 4075. LIMITATION ON INJUNCTION AND PROSPECTIVE RELIEF.

    (a) In General.--In a covered civil action, a court shall not grant 
or approve any prospective relief unless the court finds that the 
relief--
            (1) is narrowly drawn;
            (2) extends no further than necessary to correct the 
        violation of a legal requirement; and
            (3) is the least intrusive means necessary to correct the 
        violation.
    (b) Duration.--
            (1) In general.--A court shall limit the duration of 
        preliminary injunctions to halt covered energy projects to not 
        more than 60 days, unless the court finds clear reasons to 
        extend the injunction.
            (2) Administration.--In the case of an extension, the 
        extension shall--
                    (A) only be in 30-day increments; and
                    (B) require action by the court to renew the 
                injunction.

SEC. 4076. LIMITATION ON ATTORNEYS' FEES AND COURT COSTS.

    (a) In General.--Sections 504 of title 5 and 2412 of title 28, 
United States Code (commonly known as the ``Equal Access to Justice 
Act''), shall not apply to a covered civil action.
    (b) Court Costs.--A party to a covered civil action shall not 
receive payment from the Federal Government for the attorneys' fees, 
expenses, or other court costs incurred by the party.

SEC. 4077. LEGAL STANDING.

    A challenger that files an appeal with the Department of the 
Interior Board of Land Appeals shall meet the same standing 
requirements as a challenger before a United States district court.

                 TITLE V--ADDITIONAL ONSHORE RESOURCES

       Subtitle A--Leasing Program for Land Within Coastal Plain

SEC. 5001. FINDING.

    Congress finds that development of energy reserves under the 
Coastal Plain of Alaska, performed in an environmentally responsible 
manner, will contribute to job growth and economic development.

SEC. 5002. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Coastal plain.--The term ``Coastal Plain'' means the 
        area described in appendix I to part 37 of title 50, Code of 
        Federal Regulations.
            (2) Peer reviewed.--The term ``peer reviewed'' means 
        reviewed--
                    (A) by individuals chosen by the National Academy 
                of Sciences with no contractual relationship with, or 
                those who have no application for a grant or other 
                funding pending with, the Federal agency with leasing 
                jurisdiction; or
                    (B) if individuals described in subparagraph (A) 
                are not available, by the top individuals in the 
                specified biological fields, as determined by the 
                National Academy of Sciences.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 5003. LEASING PROGRAM FOR LAND ON THE COASTAL PLAIN.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) establish and implement, in accordance with this 
        subtitle and acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land 
        Management in consultation with the Director of the United 
        States Fish and Wildlife Service, a competitive oil and gas 
        leasing program that will result in the exploration, 
        development, and production of the oil and gas resources of the 
        Coastal Plain; and
            (2) administer the provisions of this subtitle through 
        regulations, lease terms, conditions, restrictions, 
        prohibitions, stipulations, and other provisions that ensure 
        the oil and gas exploration, development, and production 
        activities on the Coastal Plain do not result in any 
        significant adverse effect on fish and wildlife, the habitat of 
        fish and wildlife, subsistence resources, or the environment, 
        including, in furtherance of this goal, by requiring the 
        application of the best commercially available technology for 
        oil and gas exploration, development, and production to all 
        exploration, development, and production operations under this 
        subtitle in a manner that ensures the receipt of fair market 
        value by the public for the mineral resources to be leased.
    (b) Repeal of Existing Restriction.--
            (1) Repeal.--Section 1003 of the Alaska National Interest 
        Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3143) is repealed.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--The table of contents contained 
        in section 1 of that Act (16 U.S.C. 3101 note) is amended by 
        striking the item relating to section 1003.
    (c) Compliance With Requirements Under Certain Other Laws.--
            (1) Compatibility.--For purposes of the National Wildlife 
        Refuge System Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd et 
        seq.), the oil and gas leasing program and activities 
        authorized by this section on the Coastal Plain are deemed to 
        be compatible with the purposes for which the Arctic National 
        Wildlife Refuge was established, and no further findings or 
        decisions are required to implement this determination.
            (2) Adequacy of the department of the interior's 
        legislative environmental impact statement.--The document of 
        the Department of the Interior entitled ``Final Legislative 
        Environmental Impact Statement'' and dated April 1987 relating 
        to the Coastal Plain prepared pursuant to section 1002 of the 
        Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 
        3142) and section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental 
        Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C)) is deemed to satisfy 
        the requirements under the National Environmental Policy Act of 
        1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) that apply with respect to 
        prelease activities under this subtitle, including actions 
        authorized to be taken by the Secretary to develop and 
        promulgate regulations for the establishment of a leasing 
        program authorized by this subtitle before the conduct of the 
        first lease sale.
            (3) Compliance with nepa for other actions.--
                    (A) In general.--Prior to conducting the first 
                lease sale under this subtitle, the Secretary shall 
                prepare an environmental impact statement under the 
                National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
                4321 et seq.) with respect to the actions authorized by 
                this subtitle not covered by paragraph (2).
                    (B) Nonleasing alternatives not required.--
                Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in 
                preparing the environmental impact statement under 
                subparagraph (A), the Secretary--
                            (i) shall--
                                    (I) only identify a preferred 
                                action for leasing and a single leasing 
                                alternative; and
                                    (II) analyze the environmental 
                                effects and potential mitigation 
                                measures for those 2 alternatives; and
                            (ii) is not required--
                                    (I) to identify nonleasing 
                                alternative courses of action; or
                                    (II) to analyze the environmental 
                                effects of nonleasing alternative 
                                courses of action.
                    (C) Deadline.--The identification under 
                subparagraph (B)(i)(I) for the first lease sale 
                conducted under this subtitle shall be completed not 
                later than 18 months after the date of enactment of 
                this Act.
                    (D) Public comment.--The Secretary shall only 
                consider public comments that--
                            (i) specifically address the preferred 
                        action of the Secretary; and
                            (ii) are filed not later than 20 days after 
                        the date on which the environmental analysis is 
                        published.
                    (E) Compliance.--Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, compliance with this paragraph is 
                deemed to satisfy all requirements for the analysis and 
                consideration of the environmental effects of proposed 
                leasing under this subtitle.
    (d) Relationship to State and Local Authority.--Nothing in this 
subtitle expands or limits State or local regulatory authority.
    (e) Special Areas.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, after consultation with the 
        State of Alaska, the city of Kaktovik and the North Slope 
        Borough of the State of Alaska, may designate not more than 
        45,000 acres of the Coastal Plain as a ``Special Area'' if the 
        Secretary determines that the area is of such unique character 
        and interest so as to require special management and regulatory 
        protection.
            (2) Sadlerochit spring area.--The Secretary shall designate 
        the Sadlerochit Spring area, consisting of approximately 4,000 
        acres, as a Special Area.
            (3) Management.--Each Special Area shall be managed to 
        protect and preserve the unique and diverse character of the 
        area, including the fish, wildlife, and subsistence resource 
        values of the area.
            (4) Exclusion from leasing or surface occupancy.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may exclude any 
                Special Area from leasing.
                    (B) No surface occupancy.--If the Secretary leases 
                a Special Area, or any part of a Special Area, for oil 
                and gas exploration, development, production, or 
                related activities, there shall be no surface occupancy 
                of the land comprising the Special Area.
            (5) Directional drilling.--Notwithstanding the other 
        provisions of this subsection, the Secretary may lease all or a 
        portion of a Special Area under terms that permit the use of 
        horizontal drilling technology from sites on leases tracts 
        located outside the Special Area.
    (f) Limitation on Closed Areas.--The authority of the Secretary to 
close land on the Coastal Plain to oil and gas leasing, exploration, 
development, or production shall be limited to the authority provided 
under this subtitle.
    (g) Regulations.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 15 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall promulgate 
        regulations necessary to carry out this subtitle, including 
        regulations relating to protection of fish and wildlife, the 
        habitat of fish and wildlife, subsistence resources, and 
        environment of the Coastal Plain.
            (2) Revision of regulations.--The Secretary shall, through 
        a rulemaking conducted in accordance with section 553 of title 
        5, United States Code, periodically review and, if appropriate, 
        revise the regulations promulgated under paragraph (1) to 
        reflect a preponderance of the best available scientific 
        evidence that has been peer reviewed and obtained by following 
        appropriate, documented scientific procedures, the results of 
        which can be repeated using those same procedures.

SEC. 5004. LEASE SALES.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with the requirements of this 
subtitle, the Secretary may lease land under this subtitle to any 
person qualified to obtain a lease for deposits of oil and gas under 
the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.).
    (b) Procedures.--The Secretary shall, by regulation and not later 
than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, establish 
procedures for--
            (1) receipt and consideration of sealed nominations for any 
        area of the Coastal Plain for inclusion in, or exclusion from, 
        a lease sale;
            (2) the holding of lease sales after the nomination 
        process; and
            (3) public notice of and comment on designation of areas to 
        be included in, or excluded from, a lease sale.
    (c) Lease Sale Bids.--Lease sales under this subtitle may be 
conducted through an Internet leasing program, if the Secretary 
determines that the Internet leasing program will result in savings to 
the taxpayer, an increase in the number of bidders participating, and 
higher returns than oral bidding or a sealed bidding system.
    (d) Sale Acreages and Schedule.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) offer for lease under this subtitle--
                    (A) those tracts the Secretary considers to have 
                the greatest potential for the discovery of 
                hydrocarbons, taking into consideration nominations 
                received under subsection (b)(1); and
                    (B)(i) not fewer than 50,000 acres by not later 
                than 22 months after the date of the enactment of this 
                Act; and
                    (ii) not fewer than an additional 50,000 acres at 
                6-, 12-, and 18-month intervals following the initial 
                offering under subclause (i);
            (2) conduct 4 additional lease sales under the same terms 
        and schedule as the last lease sale under paragraph (1)(B)(ii) 
        not later than 2 years after the date of that sale, if 
        sufficient interest in leasing exists to warrant, in the 
        judgment of the Secretary, the conduct of the sales; and
            (3) evaluate the bids in each lease sale under this 
        subsection and issue leases resulting from the sales not later 
        than 90 days after the date on which the sale is completed.

SEC. 5005. GRANT OF LEASES BY THE SECRETARY.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may grant to the highest responsible 
qualified bidder in a lease sale conducted under section 5004 any land 
to be leased on the Coastal Plain upon payment by the bidder of any 
bonus as may be accepted by the Secretary.
    (b) Subsequent Transfers.--No lease issued under this subtitle may 
be sold, exchanged, assigned, sublet, or otherwise transferred except 
with the approval of the Secretary after the Secretary consults with, 
and gives due consideration to the views of, the Attorney General.

SEC. 5006. LEASE TERMS AND CONDITIONS.

    An oil or gas lease issued under this subtitle shall--
            (1) provide for the payment of a royalty of not less than 
        12.5 percent in amount or value of the production removed or 
        sold under the lease, as determined by the Secretary under the 
        regulations applicable to other Federal oil and gas leases;
            (2) provide that the Secretary may close, on a seasonal 
        basis, portions of the Coastal Plain to exploratory drilling 
        activities as necessary to protect caribou calving areas and 
        other species of fish and wildlife based on a preponderance of 
        the best available scientific evidence that has been peer 
        reviewed and obtained by following appropriate, documented 
        scientific procedures, the results of which can be repeated 
        using those same procedures;
            (3) require that the lessee of land on the Coastal Plain 
        shall be fully responsible and liable for the reclamation of 
        land on the Coastal Plain and any other Federal land that is 
        adversely affected in connection with exploration, development, 
        production, or transportation activities conducted under the 
        lease and on the Coastal Plain by the lessee or by any of the 
        subcontractors or agents of the lessee;
            (4) provide that the lessee may not delegate or convey, by 
        contract or otherwise, the reclamation responsibility and 
        liability to another person without the express written 
        approval of the Secretary;
            (5) provide that the standard of reclamation for land 
        required to be reclaimed under this subtitle shall be, as 
        nearly as practicable, a condition capable of supporting the 
        uses which the land was capable of supporting prior to any 
        exploration, development, or production activities, or upon 
        application by the lessee, to a higher or better use as 
        certified by the Secretary;
            (6) contain terms and conditions relating to protection of 
        fish and wildlife, the habitat of fish and wildlife, 
        subsistence resources, and the environment as required under 
        section 5003(a)(2);
            (7) provide that the lessee, agents of the lessee, and 
        contractors of the lessee use best efforts to provide a fair 
        share, as determined by the level of obligation previously 
        agreed to in the 1974 agreement implementing section 29 of the 
        Federal Agreement and Grant of Right-of-Way for the Operation 
        of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline, of employment and contracting for 
        Alaska Natives and Alaska Native corporations from throughout 
        the State; and
            (8) contain such other provisions as the Secretary 
        determines necessary to ensure compliance with this subtitle 
        and the regulations issued pursuant to this subtitle.

SEC. 5007. COASTAL PLAIN ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.

    (a) No Significant Adverse Effect Standard To Govern Authorized 
Coastal Plain Activities.--The Secretary shall, consistent with the 
requirements of section 5003, administer this subtitle through 
regulations, lease terms, conditions, restrictions, prohibitions, 
stipulations, and other provisions that--
            (1) ensure the oil and gas exploration, development, and 
        production activities on the Coastal Plain shall not result in 
        any significant adverse effect on fish and wildlife, the 
        habitat of fish and wildlife, or the environment;
            (2) require the application of the best commercially 
        available technology for oil and gas exploration, development, 
        and production on all new exploration, development, and 
        production operations; and
            (3) ensure that the maximum amount of surface acreage 
        covered by production and support facilities, including 
        airstrips and any areas covered by gravel berms or piers for 
        support of pipelines, does not exceed 10,000 acres on the 
        Coastal Plain for each 100,000 acres of area leased.
    (b) Site-Specific Assessment and Mitigation.--With respect to any 
proposed drilling and related activities, the Secretary shall require 
that--
            (1) a site-specific analysis be made of the probable 
        effects, if any, that the drilling or related activities will 
        have on fish and wildlife, the habitat of fish and wildlife, 
        subsistence resources, and the environment;
            (2) a plan be implemented to avoid, minimize, and mitigate 
        (in that order and to the extent practicable) any significant 
        adverse effect identified under paragraph (1); and
            (3) the development of the plan shall occur after 
        consultation with the agency or agencies having jurisdiction 
        over matters mitigated by the plan.
    (c) Regulations To Protect Coastal Plain Fish and Wildlife 
Resources, Subsistence Users, and the Environment.--Prior to 
implementing the leasing program authorized by this subtitle, the 
Secretary shall prepare and promulgate regulations, lease terms, 
conditions, restrictions, prohibitions, stipulations, and other 
measures designed to ensure that the activities undertaken on the 
Coastal Plain under this subtitle are conducted in a manner consistent 
with the purposes and environmental requirements of this subtitle.
    (d) Compliance With Federal and State Environmental Laws and Other 
Requirements.--The proposed regulations, lease terms, conditions, 
restrictions, prohibitions, and stipulations for the leasing program 
under this subtitle shall require compliance with all applicable 
provisions of Federal and State environmental law and compliance with 
the following:
            (1) Standards at least as effective as the safety and 
        environmental mitigation measures set forth in items 1 through 
        29 at pages 167 through 169 of the document of the Department 
        of the Interior entitled ``Final Legislative Environmental 
        Impact Statement'' and dated April 1987 relating to the Coastal 
        Plain.
            (2) Seasonal limitations on exploration, development, and 
        related activities, where necessary, to avoid significant 
        adverse effects during periods of concentrated fish and 
        wildlife breeding, denning, nesting, spawning, and migration 
        based on a preponderance of the best available scientific 
        evidence that has been peer reviewed and obtained by following 
        appropriate, documented scientific procedures, the results of 
        which can be repeated using those same procedures.
            (3) That exploration activities, except for surface 
        geological studies--
                    (A) be limited to the period between approximately 
                November 1 and May 1 each year; and
                    (B) be supported, if necessary, by ice roads, 
                winter trails with adequate snow cover, ice pads, ice 
                airstrips, and air transport methods, except that 
                exploration activities may occur at other times if the 
                Secretary finds that the exploration will have no 
                significant adverse effect on the fish and wildlife, 
                the habitat of fish and wildlife, and the environment 
                of the Coastal Plain.
            (4) Design safety and construction standards for all 
        pipelines and any access and service roads, that minimize, to 
        the maximum extent practicable, adverse effects on--
                    (A) the passage of migratory species such as 
                caribou; and
                    (B) the flow of surface water by requiring the use 
                of culverts, bridges, and other structural devices.
            (5) Prohibitions on general public access and use on all 
        pipeline access and service roads.
            (6) Stringent reclamation and rehabilitation requirements, 
        consistent with the standards set forth in this subtitle, 
        requiring the removal from the Coastal Plain of all oil and gas 
        development and production facilities, structures, and 
        equipment upon completion of oil and gas production operations, 
        except that the Secretary may exempt from the requirements of 
        this paragraph those facilities, structures, or equipment that 
        the Secretary determines would assist in the management of the 
        Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and that are donated to the 
        United States for that purpose.
            (7) Appropriate prohibitions or restrictions on access by 
        all modes of transportation.
            (8) Appropriate prohibitions or restrictions on sand and 
        gravel extraction.
            (9) Consolidation of facility siting.
            (10) Appropriate prohibitions or restrictions on the use of 
        explosives.
            (11) Avoidance, to the extent practicable, of springs, 
        streams, and river systems, the protection of natural surface 
        drainage patterns, wetlands, and riparian habitats, and the 
        regulation of methods or techniques for developing or 
        transporting adequate supplies of water for exploratory 
        drilling.
            (12) Avoidance or minimization of air traffic-related 
        disturbance to fish and wildlife.
            (13) Treatment and disposal of hazardous and toxic wastes, 
        solid wastes, reserve pit fluids, drilling muds and cuttings, 
        and domestic wastewater, including an annual waste management 
        report, a hazardous materials tracking system, and a 
        prohibition on chlorinated solvents, in accordance with 
        applicable Federal and State environmental law (including 
        regulations).
            (14) Fuel storage and oil spill contingency planning.
            (15) Research, monitoring, and reporting requirements.
            (16) Field crew environmental briefings.
            (17) Avoidance of significant adverse effects upon 
        subsistence hunting, fishing, and trapping by subsistence 
        users.
            (18) Compliance with applicable air and water quality 
        standards.
            (19) Appropriate seasonal and safety zone designations 
        around well sites, within which subsistence hunting and 
        trapping shall be limited.
            (20) Reasonable stipulations for protection of cultural and 
        archeological resources.
            (21) All other protective environmental stipulations, 
        restrictions, terms, and conditions determined necessary by the 
        Secretary.
    (e) Considerations.--In preparing and promulgating regulations, 
lease terms, conditions, restrictions, prohibitions, and stipulations 
under this section, the Secretary shall consider--
            (1) the stipulations and conditions that govern the 
        National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska leasing program, as set forth 
        in the 1999 Northeast National Petroleum Reserve-Alaska Final 
        Integrated Activity Plan/Environmental Impact Statement;
            (2) the environmental protection standards that governed 
        the initial Coastal Plain seismic exploration program under 
        parts 37.31 to 37.33 of title 50, Code of Federal Regulations; 
        and
            (3) the land use stipulations for exploratory drilling on 
        the KIC-ASRC private land that are set forth in appendix 2 of 
        the August 9, 1983, agreement between Arctic Slope Regional 
        Corporation and the United States.
    (f) Facility Consolidation Planning.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall, after providing for 
        public notice and comment, prepare and update periodically a 
        plan to govern, guide, and direct the siting and construction 
        of facilities for the exploration, development, production, and 
        transportation of Coastal Plain oil and gas resources.
            (2) Objectives.--The plan shall have the following 
        objectives:
                    (A) Avoiding unnecessary duplication of facilities 
                and activities.
                    (B) Encouraging consolidation of common facilities 
                and activities.
                    (C) Locating or confining facilities and activities 
                to areas that will minimize impact on fish and 
                wildlife, the habitat of fish and wildlife, and the 
                environment.
                    (D) Using existing facilities wherever practicable.
                    (E) Enhancing compatibility between wildlife values 
                and development activities.
    (g) Access to Public Land.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) manage public land in the Coastal Plain subject to 
        section 811 of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 3121); and
            (2) ensure that local residents shall have reasonable 
        access to public land in the Coastal Plain for traditional 
        uses.

SEC. 5008. EXPEDITED JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    (a) Filing of Complaint.--
            (1) Deadline.--Subject to paragraph (2), any complaint 
        seeking judicial review of--
                    (A) any provision of this subtitle shall be filed 
                by not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
                this Act; or
                    (B) any action of the Secretary under this subtitle 
                shall be filed--
                            (i) except as provided in clause (ii), 
                        during the 90-day period beginning on the date 
                        on which the action is challenged; or
                            (ii) in the case of a complaint based 
                        solely on grounds arising after the period 
                        described in clause (i), not later than 90 days 
                        after the date on which the complainant knew or 
                        reasonably should have known of the grounds for 
                        the complaint.
            (2) Venue.--Any complaint seeking judicial review of any 
        provision of this subtitle or any action of the Secretary under 
        this subtitle may be filed only in the United States Court of 
        Appeals for the District of Columbia.
            (3) Limitation on scope of certain review.--
                    (A) In general.--Judicial review of a decision by 
                the Secretary to conduct a lease sale under this 
                subtitle, including an environmental analysis, shall 
                be--
                            (i) limited to whether the Secretary has 
                        complied with this subtitle; and
                            (ii) based on the administrative record of 
                        that decision.
                    (B) Presumption.--The identification by the 
                Secretary of a preferred course of action to enable 
                leasing to proceed and the analysis by the Secretary of 
                environmental effects under this subtitle is presumed 
                to be correct unless shown otherwise by clear and 
                convincing evidence.
    (b) Limitation on Other Review.--Actions of the Secretary with 
respect to which review could have been obtained under this section 
shall not be subject to judicial review in any civil or criminal 
proceeding for enforcement.
    (c) Limitation on Attorneys' Fees and Court Costs.--
            (1) In general.--Sections 504 of title 5 and 2412 of title 
        28, United States Code (commonly known as the ``Equal Access to 
        Justice Act''), shall not apply to any action under this 
        subtitle.
            (2) Court costs.--A party to any action under this subtitle 
        shall not receive payment from the Federal Government for the 
        attorneys' fees, expenses, or other court costs incurred by the 
        party.

SEC. 5009. TREATMENT OF REVENUES.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 90 percent of the 
amount of bonus, rental, and royalty revenues from Federal oil and gas 
leasing and operations authorized under this subtitle shall be 
deposited in the Treasury.

SEC. 5010. RIGHTS-OF-WAY ACROSS THE COASTAL PLAIN.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall issue rights-of-way and 
easements across the Coastal Plain for the transportation of oil and 
gas produced under leases under this subtitle--
            (1) except as provided in paragraph (2), under section 28 
        of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 185), without regard to 
        title XI of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 3161 et seq.); and
            (2) under title XI of the Alaska National Interest Lands 
        Conservation Act (30 U.S.C. 3161 et seq.), for access 
        authorized by sections 1110 and 1111 of that Act (16 U.S.C. 
        3170, 3171).
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary shall include in any 
right-of-way or easement issued under subsection (a) such terms and 
conditions as may be necessary to ensure that transportation of oil and 
gas does not result in a significant adverse effect on the fish and 
wildlife, the habitat of fish and wildlife, subsistence resources, or 
the environment of the Coastal Plain, including requirements that 
facilities be sited or designed so as to avoid unnecessary duplication 
of roads and pipelines.
    (c) Regulations.--The Secretary shall include in regulations 
promulgated under section 5003(g) provisions granting rights-of-way and 
easements described in subsection (a).

SEC. 5011. CONVEYANCE.

    In order to maximize Federal revenues by removing clouds on titles 
to land and clarifying land ownership patterns on the Coastal Plain, 
and notwithstanding section 1302(h)(2) of the Alaska National Interest 
Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3192(h)(2)), the Secretary shall 
convey--
            (1) to the Kaktovik Inupiat Corporation, the surface estate 
        of the land described in paragraph 1 of Public Land Order 6959, 
        to the extent necessary to fulfill the entitlement of the 
        Kaktovik Inupiat Corporation under sections 12 and 14 of the 
        Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1611, 1613) in 
        accordance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement 
        between the Department of the Interior, the United States Fish 
        and Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Land Management, and the 
        Kaktovik Inupiat Corporation dated January 22, 1993; and
            (2) to the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation the remaining 
        subsurface estate to which the Arctic Slope Regional 
        Corporation is entitled pursuant to the August 9, 1983, 
        agreement between the Arctic Slope Regional Corporation and the 
        United States of America.

                   Subtitle B--Native American Energy

SEC. 5021. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) the Federal Government has unreasonably interfered with 
        the efforts of Indian tribes to develop energy resources on 
        tribal land; and
            (2) Indian tribes should have the opportunity to gain the 
        benefits of the jobs, investment, and economic development to 
        be gained from energy development.

SEC. 5022. APPRAISALS.

    (a) Amendment.--Title XXVI of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (25 
U.S.C. 3501 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 2607. APPRAISAL REFORMS.

    ``(a) Options to Indian Tribes.--With respect to a transaction 
involving Indian land or the trust assets of an Indian tribe that 
requires the approval of the Secretary, any appraisal or other 
estimates of value relating to fair market value required to be 
conducted under applicable law, regulation, or policy may be completed 
by--
            ``(1) the Secretary;
            ``(2) the affected Indian tribe; or
            ``(3) a certified, third-party appraiser pursuant to a 
        contract with the Indian tribe.
    ``(b) Time Limit on Secretarial Review and Action.--Not later than 
30 days after the date on which the Secretary receives an appraisal 
conducted by or for an Indian tribe pursuant to paragraph (2) or (3) of 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) review the appraisal; and
            ``(2) provide to the Indian tribe a written notice of 
        approval or disapproval of the appraisal.
    ``(c) Failure of Secretary To Approve or Disapprove.--If the 
Secretary has failed to approve or disapprove any appraisal by the date 
that is 60 days after the date on which the appraisal is received, the 
appraisal shall be deemed approved.
    ``(d) Option of Indian Tribes To Waive Appraisal.--An Indian tribe 
may waive the requirements of subsection (a) if the Indian tribe 
provides to the Secretary a written resolution, statement, or other 
unambiguous indication of tribal intent to waive the requirements 
that--
            ``(1) is duly approved by the governing body of the Indian 
        tribe; and
            ``(2) includes an express waiver by the Indian tribe of any 
        claims for damages the Indian tribe might have against the 
        United States as a result of the waiver.
    ``(e) Regulations.--The Secretary shall promulgate regulations to 
implement this section, including standards the Secretary shall use for 
approving or disapproving an appraisal under subsection (b).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents of the Energy 
Policy Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 13201 note) is amended by adding at the 
end of the items relating to title XXVI the following:

``Sec. 2607. Appraisal reforms.''.

SEC. 5023. STANDARDIZATION.

    As soon as practicable after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall implement procedures to ensure that 
each agency within the Department of the Interior that is involved in 
the review, approval, and oversight of oil and gas activities on Indian 
land shall use a uniform system of reference numbers and tracking 
systems for oil and gas wells.

SEC. 5024. ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEWS OF MAJOR FEDERAL ACTIONS ON INDIAN 
              LAND.

    Section 102 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
U.S.C. 4332) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting 
        ``(a) In General.--'' before ``The Congress authorizes''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Review of Major Federal Actions on Indian Land.--
            ``(1) Definitions of indian land and indian tribe.--In this 
        subsection, the terms `Indian land' and `Indian tribe' have the 
        meaning given those terms in section 2601 of the Energy Policy 
        Act of 1992 (25 U.S.C. 3501).
            ``(2) In general.--For any major Federal action on Indian 
        land of an Indian tribe requiring the preparation of a 
        statement under subsection (a)(2)(C), the statement shall only 
        be available for review and comment by--
                    ``(A) the members of the Indian tribe; and
                    ``(B) any other individual residing within the 
                affected area.
            ``(3) Regulations.--The Chairman of the Council on 
        Environmental Quality, in consultation with Indian tribes, 
        shall develop regulations to implement this section, including 
        descriptions of affected areas for specific major Federal 
        actions.''.

SEC. 5025. JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Agency action.--The term ``agency action'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 551 of title 5, United States 
        Code.
            (2) Energy related action.--The term ``energy-related 
        action'' means a civil action that--
                    (A) is filed on or after the date of enactment of 
                this Act; and
                    (B) seeks judicial review of a final agency action 
                relating to the issuance of a permit, license, or other 
                form of agency permission allowing--
                            (i) any person or entity to conduct on 
                        Indian Land activities involving the 
                        exploration, development, production, or 
                        transportation of oil, gas, coal, shale gas, 
                        oil shale, geothermal resources, wind or solar 
                        resources, underground coal gasification, 
                        biomass, or the generation of electricity; or
                            (ii) any Indian Tribe, or any organization 
                        of 2 or more entities, not less than 1 of which 
                        is an Indian tribe, to conduct activities 
                        involving the exploration, development, 
                        production, or transportation of oil, gas, 
                        coal, shale gas, oil shale, geothermal 
                        resources, wind or solar resources, underground 
                        coal gasification, biomass, or the generation 
                        of electricity, regardless of where such 
                        activities are undertaken.
            (3) Indian land.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``Indian land'' has the 
                meaning given the term in section 2601 of the Energy 
                Policy Act of 1992 (25 U.S.C. 3501).
                    (B) Inclusion.--The term ``Indian land'' includes 
                land owned by a Native Corporation (as that term is 
                defined in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims 
                Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602)) under that Act (43 
                U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
            (4) Ultimately prevail.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``ultimately prevail'' 
                means, in a final enforceable judgment that the court 
                rules in the party's favor on at least 1 civil claim 
                that is an underlying rationale for the preliminary 
                injunction, administrative stay, or other relief 
                requested by the party.
                    (B) Exclusion.--The term ``ultimately prevail'' 
                does not include circumstances in which the final 
                agency action is modified or amended by the issuing 
                agency unless the modification or amendment is required 
                pursuant to a final enforceable judgment of the court 
                or a court-ordered consent decree.
    (b) Time for Filing Complaint.--
            (1) In general.--Any energy related action shall be filed 
        not later than the end of the 60-day period beginning on the 
        date of the action or decision by a Federal official that 
        constitutes the covered energy project concerned.
            (2) Prohibition.--Any energy related action that is not 
        filed within the time period described in paragraph (1) shall 
        be barred.
    (c) District Court Venue and Deadline.--An energy related action--
            (1) may only be brought in the United States District Court 
        for the District of Columbia; and
            (2) shall be resolved as expeditiously as possible, and in 
        any event not more than 180 days after the energy related 
        action is filed.
    (d) Appellate Review.--An interlocutory order or final judgment, 
decree or order of the district court in an energy related action--
            (1) may be appealed to the United States Court of Appeals 
        for the District of Columbia Circuit; and
            (2) if the court described in paragraph (1) undertakes the 
        review, the court shall resolve the review as expeditiously as 
        possible, and in any event by not later than 180 days after the 
        interlocutory order or final judgment, decree or order of the 
        district court was issued.
    (e) Limitation on Certain Payments.--Notwithstanding section 1304 
of title 31, United States Code, no award may be made under section 504 
of title 5, United States Code, or under section 2412 of title 28, 
United States Code, and no amounts may be obligated or expended from 
the Claims and Judgment Fund of the United States Treasury to pay any 
fees or other expenses under such sections, to any person or party in 
an energy related action.
    (f) Limitation on Attorneys' Fees and Court Costs.--
            (1) In general.--Sections 504 of title 5 and 2412 of title 
        28, United States Code (commonly known as the ``Equal Access to 
        Justice Act''), shall not apply to an energy related action.
            (2) Court costs.--A party to a covered civil action shall 
        not receive payment from the Federal Government for the 
        attorneys' fees, expenses, or other court costs incurred by the 
        party.

SEC. 5026. TRIBAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PLANS.

    Unless otherwise explicitly exempted by Federal law enacted after 
the date of enactment of this Act, any activity conducted or resources 
harvested or produced pursuant to a tribal resource management plan or 
an integrated resource management plan approved by the Secretary of the 
Interior under the National Indian Forest Resources Management Act (25 
U.S.C. 3101 et seq.) or the American Indian Agricultural Resource 
Management Act (25 U.S.C. 3701 et seq.), shall be considered a 
sustainable management practice for purposes of any Federal standard, 
benefit, or requirement that requires a demonstration of such 
sustainability.

SEC. 5027. LEASES OF RESTRICTED LANDS FOR THE NAVAJO NATION.

    Subsection (e)(1) of the first section of the Act of August 9, 1955 
(25 U.S.C. 415) (commonly known as the ``Long-Term Leasing Act''), is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``, except a lease for'' and inserting ``, 
        including leases for'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``25 years, except'' 
        and all that follows through ``; and'' and inserting ``99 
        years;'';
            (3) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(C) in the case of a lease for the exploration, 
        development, or extraction of mineral resources, including 
        geothermal resources, 25 years, except that the lease may 
        include an option to renew for 1 additional term not to exceed 
        25 years.''.

SEC. 5028. NONAPPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN RULES.

    No rule promulgated by the Secretary of the Interior regarding 
hydraulic fracturing used in the development or production of oil or 
gas resources shall affect any land held in trust or restricted status 
for the benefit of Indians except with the express consent of the 
beneficiary on behalf of which the land is held in trust or restricted 
status.

              Subtitle C--Additional Regulatory Provisions

           PART I--STATE AUTHORITY OVER HYDRAULIC FRACTURING

SEC. 5031. FINDING.

    Congress finds that given variations in geology, land use, and 
population, the States are best placed to regulate the process of 
hydraulic fracturing occurring on any land within the boundaries of the 
individual State.

SEC. 5032. STATE AUTHORITY.

    (a) Definition of Federal Land.--In this section, the term 
``Federal land'' means--
            (1) public lands (as defined in section 103 of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702));
            (2) National Forest System land;
            (3) land under the jurisdiction of the Bureau of 
        Reclamation; and
            (4) land under the jurisdiction of the Corps of Engineers.
    (b) State Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, a State shall have the sole authority to promulgate or 
        enforce any regulation, guidance, or permit requirement 
        regarding the treatment of a well by the application of fluids 
        under pressure to which propping agents may be added for the 
        expressly designed purpose of initiating or propagating 
        fractures in a target geologic formation in order to enhance 
        production of oil, natural gas, or geothermal production 
        activities on or under any land within the boundaries of the 
        State.
            (2) Federal land.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, the treatment of a well by the application of fluids under 
        pressure to which propping agents may be added for the 
        expressly designed purpose of initiating or propagating 
        fractures in a target geologic formation in order to enhance 
        production of oil, natural gas, or geothermal production 
        activities on Federal land shall be subject to the law of the 
        State in which the land is located.

                   PART II--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 5041. ENVIRONMENTAL LEGAL FEES.

    Section 504 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(g) Environmental Legal Fees.--Notwithstanding section 1304 of 
title 31, no award may be made under this section and no amounts may be 
obligated or expended from the Claims and Judgment Fund of the Treasury 
to pay any legal fees of a nongovernmental organization related to an 
action that (with respect to the United States)--
            ``(1) prevents, terminates, or reduces access to or the 
        production of--
                    ``(A) energy;
                    ``(B) a mineral resource;
                    ``(C) water by agricultural producers;
                    ``(D) a resource by commercial or recreational 
                fishermen; or
                    ``(E) grazing or timber production on Federal land;
            ``(2) diminishes the private property value of a property 
        owner; or
            ``(3) eliminates or prevents 1 or more jobs.''.

SEC. 5042. MASTER LEASING PLANS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land 
Management, shall not establish a master leasing plan as part of any 
guidance issued by the Secretary.
    (b) Existing Master Leasing Plans.--Instruction Memorandum No. 
2010-117 and any other master leasing plan described in subsection (a) 
issued on or before the date of enactment of this Act shall have no 
force or effect.

        TITLE VI--IMPROVING AMERICA'S DOMESTIC REFINING CAPACITY

                 Subtitle A--Refinery Permitting Reform

SEC. 6001. FINDING.

    Congress finds that the domestic refining industry is an important 
source of jobs and economic growth and whose growth should not be 
limited by an excessively drawn out permitting and approval process.

SEC. 6002. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
            (2) Expansion.--The term ``expansion'' means a physical 
        change that results in an increase in the capacity of a 
        refinery.
            (3) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian tribe'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
        Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b).
            (4) Permit.--The term ``permit'' means any permit, license, 
        approval, variance, or other form of authorization that a 
        refiner is required to obtain--
                    (A) under any Federal law; or
                    (B) from a State or tribal government agency 
                delegated authority by the Federal Government, or 
                authorized under Federal law, to issue permits.
            (5) Refiner.--The term ``refiner'' means a person that--
                    (A) owns or operates a refinery; or
                    (B) seeks to become an owner or operator of a 
                refinery.
            (6) Refinery.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``refinery'' means--
                            (i) a facility at which crude oil is 
                        refined into transportation fuel or other 
                        petroleum products; and
                            (ii) a coal liquification or coal-to-liquid 
                        facility at which coal is processed into 
                        synthetic crude oil or any other fuel.
                    (B) Inclusion.--The term ``refinery'' includes an 
                expansion of a refinery.
            (7) Refinery permitting agreement.--The term ``refinery 
        permitting agreement'' means an agreement entered into between 
        the Administrator and a State or Indian tribe under subsection 
        (c).
            (8) State.--The term ``State'' means--
                    (A) a State; and
                    (B) the District of Columbia.

SEC. 6003. STREAMLINING OF REFINERY PERMITTING PROCESS.

    (a) In General.--At the request of the Governor of a State or the 
governing body of an Indian tribe, the Administrator shall enter into a 
refinery permitting agreement with the State or Indian tribe under 
which the process for obtaining all permits necessary for the 
construction and operation of a refinery shall be streamlined using a 
systematic, interdisciplinary multimedia approach, as provided in this 
section.
    (b) Authority of Administrator.--Under a refinery permitting 
agreement, the Administrator shall have the authority, as applicable 
and necessary--
            (1) to accept from a refiner a consolidated application for 
        all permits that the refiner is required to obtain to construct 
        and operate a refinery;
            (2) in consultation and cooperation with each Federal, 
        State, or tribal government agency that is required to make any 
        determination to authorize the issuance of a permit, to 
        establish a schedule under which each agency shall--
                    (A) concurrently consider, to the maximum extent 
                practicable, each determination to be made; and
                    (B) complete each step in the permitting process; 
                and
            (3) to issue a consolidated permit that combines all 
        permits issued under the schedule established under paragraph 
        (2).
    (c) Refinery Permitting Agreements.--Under a refinery permitting 
agreement, a State or governing body of an Indian tribe shall agree 
that--
            (1) the Administrator shall have each of the authorities 
        described in subsection (b); and
            (2) the State or tribal government agency shall--
                    (A) in accordance with State law, make such 
                structural and operational changes in the agencies as 
                are necessary to enable the agencies to carry out 
                consolidated, project-wide permit reviews concurrently 
                and in coordination with the Environmental Protection 
                Agency and other Federal agencies; and
                    (B) comply, to the maximum extent practicable, with 
                the applicable schedule established under subsection 
                (b)(2).
    (d) Deadlines.--
            (1) New refineries.--In the case of a consolidated permit 
        for the construction of a new refinery, the Administrator and 
        the State or governing body of an Indian tribe shall approve or 
        disapprove the consolidated permit not later than--
                    (A) 365 days after the date of receipt of an 
                administratively complete application for the 
                consolidated permit; or
                    (B) on agreement of the applicant, the 
                Administrator, and the State or governing body of the 
                Indian tribe, 90 days after the expiration of the 
                deadline described in subparagraph (A).
            (2) Expansion of existing refineries.--In the case of a 
        consolidated permit for the expansion of an existing refinery, 
        the Administrator and the State or governing body of an Indian 
        tribe shall approve or disapprove the consolidated permit not 
        later than--
                    (A) 120 days after the date of receipt of an 
                administratively complete application for the 
                consolidated permit; or
                    (B) on agreement of the applicant, the 
                Administrator, and the State or governing body of the 
                Indian tribe, 30 days after the expiration of the 
                deadline described in subparagraph (A).
    (e) Federal Agencies.--Each Federal agency that is required to make 
any determination to authorize the issuance of a permit shall comply 
with the applicable schedule established under subsection (b)(2).
    (f) Judicial Review.--Any civil action for review of a permit 
determination under a refinery permitting agreement shall be brought 
exclusively in the United States district court for the district in 
which the refinery is located or proposed to be located.
    (g) Efficient Permit Review.--In order to reduce the duplication of 
procedures, the Administrator shall use State permitting and monitoring 
procedures to satisfy substantially equivalent Federal requirements 
under this subtitle.
    (h) Severability.--If 1 or more permits that are required for the 
construction or operation of a refinery are not approved on or before 
an applicable deadline under subsection (d), the Administrator may 
issue a consolidated permit that combines all other permits that the 
refiner is required to obtain, other than any permits that are not 
approved.
    (i) Consultation With Local Governments.--The Administrator, 
States, and tribal governments shall consult, to the maximum extent 
practicable, with local governments in carrying out this section.
    (j) Effect of Section.--Nothing in this section affects--
            (1) the operation or implementation of any otherwise 
        applicable law regarding permits necessary for the construction 
        and operation of a refinery;
            (2) the authority of any unit of local government with 
        respect to the issuance of permits; or
            (3) any requirement or ordinance of a local government 
        (such as a zoning regulation).

             Subtitle B--Repeal of Renewable Fuel Standard

SEC. 6011. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that the mandates under the renewable fuel standard 
contained in section 211(o) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545(o))--
            (1) impose significant costs on American citizens and the 
        American economy, without offering any benefit; and
            (2) should be repealed.

SEC. 6012. PHASE OUT OF RENEWABLE FUEL STANDARD.

    (a) In General.--Section 211(o) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 
7545(o)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking clause (ii); and
                            (ii) by redesignating clauses (iii) and 
                        (iv) as clauses (ii) and (iii), respectively; 
                        and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking clauses (ii) 
                through (v) and inserting the following:
                            ``(ii) Calendar years 2014 through 2018.--
                        Notwithstanding clause (i), for purposes of 
                        subparagraph (A), the applicable volumes of 
                        renewable fuel for each of calendar years 2014 
                        through 2018 shall be determined as follows:
                                    ``(I) For calendar year 2014, in 
                                accordance with the table entitled `I-
                                2--Proposed 2014 Volume Requirements' 
                                of the proposed rule published at pages 
                                71732 through 71784 of volume 78 of the 
                                Federal Register (November 29, 2013).
                                    ``(II) For calendar year 2015, the 
                                applicable volumes established under 
                                subclause (I), reduced by 20 percent.
                                    ``(III) For calendar year 2016, the 
                                applicable volumes established under 
                                subclause (I), reduced by 40 percent.
                                    ``(IV) For calendar year 2017, the 
                                applicable volumes established under 
                                subclause (I), reduced by 60 percent.
                                    ``(V) For calendar year 2018, the 
                                applicable volumes established under 
                                subclause (I), reduced by 80 
                                percent.'';
            (2) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ``2021'' and inserting ``2017'' 
                each place it appears; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)(i), by inserting ``, 
                subject to the condition that the renewable fuel 
                obligation determined for a calendar year is not more 
                than the applicable volumes established under paragraph 
                (2)(B)(ii)'' before the period; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(13) Sunset.--The program established under this 
        subsection shall terminate on December 31, 2018.''.
    (b) Regulations.--Effective beginning on January 1, 2019, the 
regulations contained in subparts K and M of part 80 of title 40, Code 
of Federal Regulations (as in effect on that date of enactment), shall 
have no force or effect.

                   TITLE VII--STOPPING EPA OVERREACH

SEC. 7001. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) the Environmental Protection Agency has exceeded its 
        statutory authority by promulgating regulations that were not 
        contemplated by Congress in the authorizing language of the 
        statutes enacted by Congress;
            (2) no Federal agency has the authority to regulate 
        greenhouse gases under current law; and
            (3) no attempt to regulate greenhouse gases should be 
        undertaken without further Congressional action.

SEC. 7002. CLARIFICATION OF FEDERAL REGULATORY AUTHORITY TO EXCLUDE 
              GREENHOUSE GASES FROM REGULATION UNDER THE CLEAN AIR ACT.

    (a) Repeal of Federal Climate Change Regulation.--
            (1) Greenhouse gas regulation under clean air act.--Section 
        302(g) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7602(g)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``(g) The term'' and inserting the 
                following:
    ``(g) Air Pollutant.--
            ``(1) In general.--The term''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Exclusion.--The term `air pollutant' does not include 
        carbon dioxide, water vapor, methane, nitrous oxide, 
        hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons, or sulfur 
        hexafluoride.''.
            (2) No regulation of climate change.--Notwithstanding any 
        other provision of law, nothing in any of the following Acts or 
        any other law authorizes or requires the regulation of climate 
        change or global warming:
                    (A) The Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.).
                    (B) The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
                U.S.C. 1251 et seq.).
                    (C) The National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
                (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
                    (D) The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
                1531 et seq.).
                    (E) The Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et 
                seq.).
    (b) Effect on Proposed Rules of the EPA.--In accordance with this 
section, the following proposed or contemplated rules (or any similar 
or successor rules) of the Environmental Protection Agency shall be 
void and have no force or effect:
            (1) The proposed rule entitled ``Standards of Performance 
        for Greenhouse Gas Emissions From New Stationary Sources: 
        Electric Utility Generating Units'' (published at 79 Fed. Reg. 
        1430 (January 8, 2014)).
            (2) The contemplated rules on carbon pollution for existing 
        power plants.
            (3) Any other contemplated or proposed rules proposed to be 
        issued pursuant to the purported authority described in 
        subsection (a)(2).

SEC. 7003. JOBS ANALYSIS FOR ALL EPA REGULATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Before proposing or finalizing any regulation, 
rule, or policy, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
Agency shall provide an analysis of the regulation, rule, or policy and 
describe the direct and indirect net and gross impact of the 
regulation, rule, or policy on employment in the United States.
    (b) Limitation.--No regulation, rule, or policy described in 
subsection (a) shall take effect if the regulation, rule, or policy has 
a negative impact on employment in the United States unless the 
regulation, rule, or policy is approved by Congress and signed by the 
President.

                     TITLE VIII--DEBT FREEDOM FUND

SEC. 8001. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) the national debt being over $17,000,000,000,000 in 
        2014--
                    (A) threatens the current and future prosperity of 
                the United States;
                    (B) undermines the national security interests of 
                the United States; and
                    (C) imposes a burden on future generations of 
                United States citizens; and
            (2) revenue generated from the development of the natural 
        resources in the United States should be used to reduce the 
        national debt.

SEC. 8002. DEBT FREEDOM FUND.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in accordance with all 
revenue sharing arrangement with States in effect on the date of 
enactment of this Act, an amount equal to the additional amount of 
Federal funds generated by the programs and activities under this Act 
(and the amendments made by this Act)--
            (1) shall be deposited in a special trust fund account in 
        the Treasury, to be known as the ``Debt Freedom Fund''; and
            (2) shall not be withdrawn for any purpose other than to 
        pay down the national debt of the United States, for which 
        purpose payments shall be made expeditiously.
                                 <all>
