
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4681 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 343
113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4681

                          [Report No. 113-463]

    To authorize appropriations for fiscal years 2014 and 2015 for 
 intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the United States 
     Government, the Community Management Account, and the Central 
  Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 20, 2014

    Mr. Rogers of Michigan introduced the following bill; which was 
  referred to the Select Committee on Intelligence (Permanent Select)

                              May 27, 2014

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
[For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on May 20, 
                                 2014]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To authorize appropriations for fiscal years 2014 and 2015 for 
 intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the United States 
     Government, the Community Management Account, and the Central 
  Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, and for other 
                               purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Intelligence 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 2014 and 2015''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.

                    TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Classified Schedule of Authorizations.
Sec. 103. Personnel ceiling adjustments.
Sec. 104. Intelligence Community Management Account.

 TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle A--General Matters

Sec. 301. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by 
                            law.
Sec. 302. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 303. Specific authorization of funding for High Performance 
                            Computing Center 2.
Sec. 304. Clarification of exemption from Freedom of Information Act of 
                            identities of employees submitting 
                            complaints to the Inspector General of the 
                            Intelligence Community.
Sec. 305. Functional managers for the intelligence community.
Sec. 306. Annual assessment of intelligence community performance by 
                            function.
Sec. 307. Software licensing.
Sec. 308. Plans to respond to unauthorized public disclosures of covert 
                            actions.
Sec. 309. Auditability.
Sec. 310. Public Interest Declassification Board.
Sec. 311. Official representation items in support of the Coast Guard 
                            Attache Program.
Sec. 312. Declassification review of certain items collected during the 
                            mission that killed Osama bin Laden on May 
                            1, 2011.
Sec. 313. Merger of the Foreign Counterintelligence Program and the 
                            General Defense Intelligence Program.

                         Subtitle B--Reporting

Sec. 321. Annual report on violations of law or executive order.
Sec. 322. Submittal to Congress by heads of elements of intelligence 
                            community of plans for orderly shutdown in 
                            event of absence of appropriations.
Sec. 323. Reports on chemical weapons in Syria.
Sec. 324. Reports to the intelligence community on penetrations of 
                            networks and information systems of certain 
                            contractors.
Sec. 325. Report on electronic waste.
Sec. 326. Promoting STEM education to meet the future workforce needs 
                            of the intelligence community.
Sec. 327. Assessment of security of domestic oil refineries and related 
                            rail transportation infrastructure.
Sec. 328. Repeal or modification of certain reporting requirements.

  TITLE IV--MATTERS RELATING TO ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY

Sec. 401. Gifts, devises, and bequests to the Central Intelligence 
                            Agency.
Sec. 402. Inspector General of the National Security Agency.

                   TITLE V--SECURITY CLEARANCE REFORM

Sec. 501. Continuous evaluation and sharing of derogatory information 
                            regarding personnel with access to 
                            classified information.
Sec. 502. Requirements for intelligence community contractors.
Sec. 503. Technology improvements to security clearance processing.
Sec. 504. Report on reciprocity of security clearances.
Sec. 505. Improving the periodic reinvestigation process.
Sec. 506. Appropriate committees of Congress defined.

                     TITLE VI--TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS

Sec. 601. Technical amendments to the Central Intelligence Agency Act 
                            of 1949.
Sec. 602. Technical amendments to the National Security Act of 1947 
                            relating to the past elimination of certain 
                            positions.
Sec. 603. Technical amendments to the Intelligence Authorization Act 
                            for Fiscal Year 2013.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Congressional intelligence committees.--The term 
        ``congressional intelligence committees'' means--
                    (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
                Senate; and
                    (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
                of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
        community'' has the meaning given that term in section 3(4) of 
        the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).

                    TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
2014 and 2015 for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-
related activities of the following elements of the United States 
Government:
            (1) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
            (2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
            (3) The Department of Defense.
            (4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
            (5) The National Security Agency.
            (6) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, 
        and the Department of the Air Force.
            (7) The Coast Guard.
            (8) The Department of State.
            (9) The Department of the Treasury.
            (10) The Department of Energy.
            (11) The Department of Justice.
            (12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
            (13) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
            (14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
            (15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
            (16) The Department of Homeland Security.

SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) Specifications of Amounts and Personnel Levels.--
            (1) Fiscal year 2014.--The amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated under section 101 and, subject to section 103, the 
        authorized personnel ceilings as of September 30, 2014, for the 
        conduct of the intelligence activities of the elements listed 
        in paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 101, are those 
        specified in the classified Schedule of Authorizations for 
        fiscal year 2014 prepared to accompany the bill H.R. 4681 of 
        the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress.
            (2) Fiscal year 2015.--The amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated under section 101 and, subject to section 103, the 
        authorized personnel ceilings as of September 30, 2015, for the 
        conduct of the intelligence activities of the elements listed 
        in paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 101, are those 
        specified in the classified Schedule of Authorizations for 
        fiscal year 2015 prepared to accompany the bill H.R. 4681 of 
        the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress.
    (b) Availability of Classified Schedule of Authorizations.--
            (1) Availability.--The classified Schedules of 
        Authorizations referred to in subsection (a) shall be made 
        available to the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, 
        and to the President.
            (2) Distribution by the president.--Subject to paragraph 
        (3), the President shall provide for suitable distribution of 
        the classified Schedules of Authorizations, or of appropriate 
        portions of the Schedules, within the executive branch.
            (3) Limits on disclosure.--The President shall not publicly 
        disclose the classified Schedules of Authorizations or any 
        portion of such Schedules except--
                    (A) as provided in section 601(a) of the 
                Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act 
                of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 3306(a));
                    (B) to the extent necessary to implement the 
                budget; or
                    (C) as otherwise required by law.

SEC. 103. PERSONNEL CEILING ADJUSTMENTS.

    (a) Authority for Increases.--The Director of National Intelligence 
may authorize employment of civilian personnel in excess of the number 
authorized for fiscal year 2014 or 2015 by the classified Schedules of 
Authorizations referred to in section 102(a) if the Director of 
National Intelligence determines that such action is necessary to the 
performance of important intelligence functions, except that the number 
of personnel employed in excess of the number authorized under such 
section may not, for any element of the intelligence community, exceed 
3 percent of the number of civilian personnel authorized under the 
Schedule for such element during the fiscal year covered by such 
Schedule.
    (b) Treatment of Certain Personnel.--The Director of National 
Intelligence shall establish guidelines that govern, for each element 
of the intelligence community, the treatment under the personnel levels 
authorized under section 102(a), including any exemption from such 
personnel levels, of employment or assignment in--
            (1) a student program, trainee program, or similar program;
            (2) a reserve corps or as a reemployed annuitant; or
            (3) details, joint duty, or long term, full-time training.
    (c) Notice to Congressional Intelligence Committees.--The Director 
of National Intelligence shall notify the congressional intelligence 
committees in writing at least 15 days prior to each exercise of an 
authority described in subsection (a).

SEC. 104. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT.

    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) Fiscal year 2014.--There is authorized to be 
        appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account 
        of the Director of National Intelligence for fiscal year 2014 
        the sum of $528,229,000. Within such amount, funds identified 
        in the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in 
        section 102(a) for advanced research and development shall 
        remain available until September 30, 2015.
            (2) Fiscal year 2015.--There is authorized to be 
        appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account 
        of the Director of National Intelligence for fiscal year 2015 
        the sum of $505,476,000. Within such amount, funds identified 
        in the classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in 
        section 102(a) for advanced research and development shall 
        remain available until September 30, 2016.
    (b) Authorized Personnel Levels.--The elements within the 
Intelligence Community Management Account of the Director of National 
Intelligence are authorized 855 positions as of September 30, 2014, and 
777 positions as of September 30, 2015. Personnel serving in such 
elements may be permanent employees of the Office of the Director of 
National Intelligence or personnel detailed from other elements of the 
United States Government.
    (c) Classified Authorizations.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--
                    (A) Fiscal year 2014.--In addition to amounts 
                authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence 
                Community Management Account by subsection (a), there 
                are authorized to be appropriated for the Community 
                Management Account for fiscal year 2014 such additional 
                amounts as are specified in the classified Schedule of 
                Authorizations referred to in section 102(a). Such 
                additional amounts for advanced research and 
                development shall remain available until September 30, 
                2015.
                    (B) Fiscal year 2015.--In addition to amounts 
                authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence 
                Community Management Account by subsection (a), there 
                are authorized to be appropriated for the Community 
                Management Account for fiscal year 2014 such additional 
                amounts as are specified in the classified Schedule of 
                Authorizations referred to in section 102(a). Such 
                additional amounts for advanced research and 
                development shall remain available until September 30, 
                2016.
            (2) Authorization of personnel.--
                    (A) Fiscal year 2014.--In addition to the personnel 
                authorized by subsection (b) for elements of the 
                Intelligence Community Management Account as of 
                September 30, 2014, there are authorized such 
                additional personnel for the Community Management 
                Account as of that date as are specified in the 
                classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in 
                section 102(a).
                    (B) Fiscal year 2015.--In addition to the personnel 
                authorized by subsection (b) for elements of the 
                Intelligence Community Management Account as of 
                September 30, 2015, there are authorized such 
                additional personnel for the Community Management 
                Account as of that date as are specified in the 
                classified Schedule of Authorizations referred to in 
                section 102(a).

 TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability Fund $514,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2014 and 2015.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle A--General Matters

SEC. 301. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED BY 
              LAW.

    Appropriations authorized by this Act for salary, pay, retirement, 
and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased by such 
additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for increases in 
such compensation or benefits authorized by law.

SEC. 302. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.

    The authorization of appropriations by this Act shall not be deemed 
to constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence activity 
which is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or the laws of 
the United States.

SEC. 303. SPECIFIC AUTHORIZATION OF FUNDING FOR HIGH PERFORMANCE 
              COMPUTING CENTER 2.

    Funds appropriated for the construction of the High Performance 
Computing Center 2 (HPCC 2), as described in the table entitled 
Consolidated Cryptologic Program (CCP) in the classified annex to 
accompany the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2013 (Public Law 113-6; 127 Stat. 198), in excess of the amount 
specified for such activity in the tables in the classified annex 
prepared to accompany the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (Public Law 112-277; 126 Stat. 2468) shall be specifically 
authorized by Congress for the purposes of section 504 of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094).

SEC. 304. CLARIFICATION OF EXEMPTION FROM FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT OF 
              IDENTITIES OF EMPLOYEES SUBMITTING COMPLAINTS TO THE 
              INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    Section 103H(g)(3)(A) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3033(g)(3)(A)) is amended by striking ``undertaken;'' and 
inserting ``undertaken, and this provision shall qualify as a 
withholding statute pursuant to subsection (b)(3) of section 552 of 
title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the `Freedom of 
Information Act');''.

SEC. 305. FUNCTIONAL MANAGERS FOR THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    (a) Functional Managers Authorized.--Title I of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3021 et seq.) is amended by inserting 
after section 103I the following new section:

``SEC. 103J. FUNCTIONAL MANAGERS FOR THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    ``(a) Functional Managers Authorized.--The Director of National 
Intelligence may establish within the intelligence community one or 
more positions of manager of an intelligence function. Any position so 
established may be known as the `Functional Manager' of the 
intelligence function concerned.
    ``(b) Personnel.--The Director shall designate individuals to serve 
as manager of intelligence functions established under subsection (a) 
from among officers and employees of elements of the intelligence 
community.
    ``(c) Duties.--Each manager of an intelligence function established 
under subsection (a) shall have the duties as follows:
            ``(1) To act as principal advisor to the Director on the 
        intelligence function.
            ``(2) To carry out such other responsibilities with respect 
        to the intelligence function as the Director may specify for 
        purposes of this section.''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 103I the following new 
item:

``Sec. 103J. Functional managers for the intelligence community.''.

SEC. 306. ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY PERFORMANCE BY 
              FUNCTION.

    (a) Annual Assessments Required.--Title V of the National Security 
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
section 506I the following new section:

``SEC. 506J. ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY PERFORMANCE BY 
              FUNCTION.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than April 1, 2016, and each year 
thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall, in 
consultation with the Functional Managers, submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees a report on covered intelligence functions 
during the preceding year.
    ``(b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include for 
each covered intelligence function for the year covered by such report 
the following:
            ``(1) An identification of the capabilities, programs, and 
        activities of such intelligence function, regardless of the 
        element of the intelligence community that carried out such 
        capabilities, programs, and activities.
            ``(2) A description of the investment and allocation of 
        resources for such intelligence function, including an analysis 
        of the allocation of resources within the context of the 
        National Intelligence Strategy, priorities for recipients of 
        resources, and areas of risk.
            ``(3) A description and assessment of the performance of 
        such intelligence function.
            ``(4) An identification of any issues related to the 
        application of technical interoperability standards in the 
        capabilities, programs, and activities of such intelligence 
        function.
            ``(5) An identification of the operational overlap or need 
        for de-confliction, if any, within such intelligence function.
            ``(6) A description of any efforts to integrate such 
        intelligence function with other intelligence disciplines as 
        part of an integrated intelligence enterprise.
            ``(7) A description of any efforts to establish consistency 
        in tradecraft and training within such intelligence function.
            ``(8) A description and assessment of developments in 
        technology that bear on the future of such intelligence 
        function.
            ``(9) Such other matters relating to such intelligence 
        function as the Director may specify for purposes of this 
        section.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `covered intelligence functions' means each 
        intelligence function for which a Functional Manager has been 
        established under section 103J during the year covered by a 
        report under this section.
            ``(2) The term `Functional Manager' means the manager of an 
        intelligence function established under section 103J.''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 506I the following new 
item:

``Sec. 506J. Annual assessment of intelligence community performance by 
                            function.''.

SEC. 307. SOFTWARE LICENSING.

    (a) In General.--Title I of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3021 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 108 the 
following new section:

``SEC. 109. SOFTWARE LICENSING.

    ``(a) Requirement for Inventories of Software Licenses.--The chief 
information officer of each element of the intelligence community, in 
consultation with the Chief Information Officer of the Intelligence 
Community, shall biennially--
            ``(1) conduct an inventory of all existing software 
        licenses of such element, including utilized and unutilized 
        licenses;
            ``(2) assess the actions that could be carried out by such 
        element to achieve the greatest possible economies of scale and 
        associated cost savings in software procurement and usage; and
            ``(3) submit to the Chief Information Officer of the 
        Intelligence Community each inventory required by paragraph (1) 
        and each assessment required by paragraph (2).
    ``(b) Inventories by the Chief Information Officer of the 
Intelligence Community.--The Chief Information Officer of the 
Intelligence Community, based on the inventories and assessments 
required by subsection (a), shall biennially--
            ``(1) compile an inventory of all existing software 
        licenses of the intelligence community, including utilized and 
        unutilized licenses; and
            ``(2) assess the actions that could be carried out by the 
        intelligence community to achieve the greatest possible 
        economies of scale and associated cost savings in software 
        procurement and usage.
    ``(c) Reports to Congress.--The Chief Information Officer of the 
Intelligence Community shall submit to the congressional intelligence 
committees a copy of each inventory compiled under subsection 
(b)(1).''.
    (b) Initial Inventory.--
            (1) Intelligence community elements.--
                    (A) Date.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
                of the enactment of this Act, the chief information 
                officer of each element of the intelligence community 
                shall complete the initial inventory, assessment, and 
                submission required under section 109(a) of the 
                National Security Act of 1947, as added by subsection 
                (a) of this section.
                    (B) Basis.--The initial inventory conducted for 
                each element of the intelligence community under 
                section 109(a)(1) of the National Security Act of 1947, 
                as added by subsection (a) of this section, shall be 
                based on the inventory of software licenses conducted 
                pursuant to section 305 of the Intelligence 
                Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-
                277; 126 Stat. 2472) for such element.
            (2) Chief information officer of the intelligence 
        community.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Chief Information Officer of the 
        Intelligence Community shall complete the initial compilation 
        and assessment required under section 109(b) of the National 
        Security Act of 1947, as added by subsection (a).
    (c) Table of Contents Amendments.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended--
            (1) by striking the second item relating to section 104 
        (relating to Annual national security strategy report); and
            (2) by inserting after the item relating to section 108 the 
        following new item:

``Sec. 109. Software licensing.''.

SEC. 308. PLANS TO RESPOND TO UNAUTHORIZED PUBLIC DISCLOSURES OF COVERT 
              ACTIONS.

    Section 503 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3093) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) For each type of activity undertaken as part of a covert 
action, the President shall establish in writing a plan to respond to 
the unauthorized public disclosure of that type of activity.''.

SEC. 309. AUDITABILITY.

    (a) In General.--Title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:

``SEC. 509. AUDITABILITY OF CERTAIN ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE 
              COMMUNITY.

    ``(a) Requirement for Annual Audits.--The head of each covered 
entity shall ensure that there is a full financial audit of such 
covered entity each year beginning with fiscal year 2014. Such audits 
may be conducted by an internal or external independent accounting or 
auditing organization.
    ``(b) Requirement for Unqualified Opinion.--Beginning as early as 
practicable, but in no event later than the audit required under 
subsection (a) for fiscal year 2016, the head of each covered entity 
shall take all reasonable steps necessary to ensure that each audit 
required under subsection (a) contains an unqualified opinion on the 
financial statements of such covered entity for the fiscal year covered 
by such audit.
    ``(c) Reports to Congress.--The chief financial officer of each 
covered entity shall provide to the congressional intelligence 
committees an annual audit report from an accounting or auditing 
organization on each audit of the covered entity conducted pursuant to 
subsection (a).
    ``(d) Covered Entity Defined.--In this section, the term `covered 
entity' means the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the 
Central Intelligence Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the 
National Security Agency, the National Reconnaissance Office, and the 
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 508 the following new 
item:

``Sec. 509. Auditability of certain elements of the intelligence 
                            community.''.

SEC. 310. PUBLIC INTEREST DECLASSIFICATION BOARD.

    Section 710(b) of the Public Interest Declassification Act of 2000 
(Public Law 106-567; 50 U.S.C. 3161 note) is amended by striking 
``2014.'' and inserting ``2018.''.

SEC. 311. OFFICIAL REPRESENTATION ITEMS IN SUPPORT OF THE COAST GUARD 
              ATTACHE PROGRAM.

    Notwithstanding any other limitation on the amount of funds that 
may be used for official representation items, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security may use funds made available to the Secretary through 
the National Intelligence Program for necessary expenses for 
intelligence analysis and operations coordination activities for 
official representation items in support of the Coast Guard Attache 
Program.

SEC. 312. DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW OF CERTAIN ITEMS COLLECTED DURING THE 
              MISSION THAT KILLED OSAMA BIN LADEN ON MAY 1, 2011.

    Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall--
            (1) in the manner described in the classified annex to this 
        Act--
                    (A) complete a declassification review of documents 
                collected in Abbottabad, Pakistan, during the mission 
                that killed Osama bin Laden on May 1, 2011; and
                    (B) make publicly available any information 
                declassified as a result of the declassification review 
                required under paragraph (1); and
            (2) report to the congressional intelligence committees--
                    (A) the results of the declassification review 
                required under paragraph (1); and
                    (B) a justification for not declassifying any 
                information required to be included in such 
                declassification review that remains classified.

SEC. 313. MERGER OF THE FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM AND THE 
              GENERAL DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director of 
National Intelligence shall carry out the merger of the Foreign 
Counterintelligence Program into the General Defense Intelligence 
Program as directed in the classified annex to this Act. The merger 
shall go into effect no earlier than 30 days after written notification 
of the merger is provided to the congressional intelligence committees.

                         Subtitle B--Reporting

SEC. 321. ANNUAL REPORT ON VIOLATIONS OF LAW OR EXECUTIVE ORDER.

    (a) In General.--Title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3091 et seq.), as amended by section 309, is further amended by 
adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 510. ANNUAL REPORT ON VIOLATIONS OF LAW OR EXECUTIVE ORDER.

    ``(a) Annual Reports Required.--The Director of National 
Intelligence shall annually submit to the congressional intelligence 
committees a report on violations of law or executive order by 
personnel of an element of the intelligence community that were 
identified during the previous calendar year.
    ``(b) Elements.--Each report required under subsection (a) shall 
include a description of, and any action taken in response to, any 
violation of law or executive order (including Executive Order 12333 
(50 U.S.C. 3001 note)) by personnel of an element of the intelligence 
community in the course of such employment that, during the previous 
calendar year, was determined by the director, head, general counsel, 
or inspector general of any element of the intelligence community to 
have occurred.''.
    (b) Initial Report.--The first report required under section 510 of 
the National Security Act of 1947, as added by subsection (a), shall be 
submitted not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (c) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of sections in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended by 
section 309 of this Act, is further amended by adding after the section 
relating to section 509, as added by such section 309, the following 
new item:

``Sec. 510. Annual report on violations of law or executive order.''.

SEC. 322. SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS BY HEADS OF ELEMENTS OF INTELLIGENCE 
              COMMUNITY OF PLANS FOR ORDERLY SHUTDOWN IN EVENT OF 
              ABSENCE OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Whenever the head of an applicable agency submits 
a plan to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in 
accordance with section 124 of Office of Management and Budget Circular 
A-11, pertaining to agency operations in the absence of appropriations, 
or any successor circular of the Office that requires the head of an 
applicable agency to submit to the Director a plan for an orderly 
shutdown in the event of the absence of appropriations, such head shall 
submit a copy of such plan to the following:
            (1) The congressional intelligence committees.
            (2) The Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the Senate.
            (3) The Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
            (4) In the case of a plan for an element of the 
        intelligence community that is within the Department of 
        Defense, to--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; 
                and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
    (b) Head of an Applicable Agency Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``head of an applicable agency'' includes the following:
            (1) The Director of National Intelligence.
            (2) The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.
            (3) Each head of each element of the intelligence community 
        that is within the Department of Defense.

SEC. 323. REPORTS ON CHEMICAL WEAPONS IN SYRIA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to Congress a report on the Syrian chemical weapons program.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) A comprehensive assessment of chemical weapon 
        stockpiles in Syria, including names, types, and quantities of 
        chemical weapons agents, types of munitions, and location and 
        form of storage, production, and research and development 
        facilities.
            (2) A listing of key personnel associated with the Syrian 
        chemical weapons program.
            (3) An assessment of undeclared chemical weapons 
        stockpiles, munitions, and facilities.
            (4) An assessment of how these stockpiles, precursors, and 
        delivery systems were obtained.
            (5) A description of key intelligence gaps related to the 
        Syrian chemical weapons program.
            (6) An assessment of any denial and deception efforts on 
        the part of the Syrian regime related to its chemical weapons 
        program.
    (c) Progress Reports.--Every 90 days until the date that is 18 
months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of 
National Intelligence shall submit to Congress a progress report 
providing any material updates to the report required under subsection 
(a).

SEC. 324. REPORTS TO THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY ON PENETRATIONS OF 
              NETWORKS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS OF CERTAIN CONTRACTORS.

    (a) Procedures for Reporting Penetrations.--The Director of 
National Intelligence shall establish procedures that require each 
cleared intelligence contractor to report to an element of the 
intelligence community designated by the Director for purposes of such 
procedures when a network or information system of such contractor that 
meets the criteria established pursuant to subsection (b) is 
successfully penetrated.
    (b) Networks and Information Systems Subject to Reporting.--The 
Director of National Intelligence shall, in consultation with 
appropriate officials, establish criteria for covered networks to be 
subject to the procedures for reporting system penetrations under 
subsection (a).
    (c) Procedure Requirements.--
            (1) Rapid reporting.--The procedures established pursuant 
        to subsection (a) shall require each cleared intelligence 
        contractor to rapidly report to an element of the intelligence 
        community designated pursuant to subsection (a) of each 
        successful penetration of the network or information systems of 
        such contractor that meet the criteria established pursuant to 
        subsection (b). Each such report shall include the following:
                    (A) A description of the technique or method used 
                in such penetration.
                    (B) A sample of the malicious software, if 
                discovered and isolated by the contractor, involved in 
                such penetration.
                    (C) A summary of information created by or for such 
                element in connection with any program of such element 
                that has been potentially compromised due to such 
                penetration.
            (2) Access to equipment and information by intelligence 
        community personnel.--The procedures established pursuant to 
        subsection (a) shall--
                    (A) include mechanisms for intelligence community 
                personnel to, upon request, obtain access to equipment 
                or information of a cleared intelligence contractor 
                necessary to conduct forensic analysis in addition to 
                any analysis conducted by such contractor;
                    (B) provide that a cleared intelligence contractor 
                is only required to provide access to equipment or 
                information as described in subparagraph (A) to 
                determine whether information created by or for an 
                element of the intelligence community in connection 
                with any intelligence community program was 
                successfully exfiltrated from a network or information 
                system of such contractor and, if so, what information 
                was exfiltrated; and
                    (C) provide for the reasonable protection of trade 
                secrets, commercial or financial information, and 
                information that can be used to identify a specific 
                person (other than the name of the suspected 
                perpetrator of the penetration).
            (3) Limitation on dissemination of certain information.--
        The procedures established pursuant to subsection (a) shall 
        prohibit the dissemination outside the intelligence community 
        of information obtained or derived through such procedures that 
        is not created by or for the intelligence community except--
                    (A) with the approval of the contractor providing 
                such information;
                    (B) to the congressional intelligence committees or 
                the Subcommittees on Defense of the Committees on 
                Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
                Senate for such committees and such Subcommittees to 
                perform oversight; or
                    (C) to law enforcement agencies to investigate a 
                penetration reported under this section.
    (d) Issuance of Procedures and Establishment of Criteria.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of National 
        Intelligence shall establish the procedures required under 
        subsection (a) and the criteria required under subsection (b).
            (2) Applicability date.--The requirements of this section 
        shall apply on the date on which the Director of National 
        Intelligence establishes the procedures required under this 
        section.
    (e) Coordination With the Secretary of Defense To Prevent Duplicate 
Reporting.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of 
Defense shall establish procedures to permit a contractor that is a 
cleared intelligence contractor and a cleared defense contractor under 
section 941 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2013 (Public Law 112-239; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) to submit a single 
report that satisfies the requirements of this section and such section 
941 for an incident of penetration of network or information system.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Cleared intelligence contractor.--The term ``cleared 
        intelligence contractor'' means a private entity granted 
        clearance by the Director of National Intelligence or the head 
        of an element of the intelligence community to access, receive, 
        or store classified information for the purpose of bidding for 
        a contract or conducting activities in support of any program 
        of an element of the intelligence community.
            (2) Covered network.--The term ``covered network'' means a 
        network or information system of a cleared intelligence 
        contractor that contains or processes information created by or 
        for an element of the intelligence community with respect to 
        which such contractor is required to apply enhanced protection.
    (g) Savings Clauses.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
alter or limit any otherwise authorized access by government personnel 
to networks or information systems owned or operated by a contractor 
that processes or stores government data.

SEC. 325. REPORT ON ELECTRONIC WASTE.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a report on the extent to which 
the intelligence community has implemented the recommendations of the 
Inspector General of the Intelligence Community contained in the report 
entitled ``Study of Intelligence Community Electronic Waste Disposal 
Practices'' issued in May 2013. Such report shall include an assessment 
of the extent to which the policies, standards, and guidelines of the 
intelligence community governing the proper disposal of electronic 
waste are applicable to covered commercial electronic waste that may 
contain classified information.
    (b) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered commercial electronic waste.--The term 
        ``covered commercial electronic waste'' means electronic waste 
        of a commercial entity that contracts with an element of the 
        intelligence community.
            (2) Electronic waste.--The term ``electronic waste'' 
        includes any obsolete, broken, or irreparable electronic 
        device, including a television, copier, facsimile machine, 
        tablet, telephone, computer, computer monitor, laptop, printer, 
        scanner, and associated electrical wiring.

SEC. 326. PROMOTING STEM EDUCATION TO MEET THE FUTURE WORKFORCE NEEDS 
              OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the Secretary of Education and the congressional intelligence 
committees a report describing the anticipated hiring needs of the 
intelligence community in the fields of science, technology, 
engineering, and mathematics, including cybersecurity and computer 
literacy. The report shall--
            (1) describe the extent to which competitions, challenges, 
        or internships at elements of the intelligence community that 
        do not involve access to classified information may be utilized 
        to promote education in the fields of science, technology, 
        engineering, and mathematics, including cybersecurity and 
        computer literacy, within high schools or institutions of 
        higher education in the United States;
            (2) include cost estimates for carrying out such 
        competitions, challenges, or internships; and
            (3) include strategies for conducting expedited security 
        clearance investigations and adjudications for students at 
        institutions of higher education for purposes of offering 
        internships at elements of the intelligence community.
    (b) Consideration of Existing Programs.--In developing the report 
under subsection (a), the Director shall take into consideration 
existing programs of the intelligence community, including the 
education programs of the National Security Agency and the Information 
Assurance Scholarship Program of the Department of Defense, as 
appropriate.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) High school.--The term ``high school'' mean a school 
        that awards a secondary school diploma.
            (2) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001(a)).
            (3) Secondary school.--The term ``secondary school'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 9101 of the Elementary 
        and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).

SEC. 327. ASSESSMENT OF SECURITY OF DOMESTIC OIL REFINERIES AND RELATED 
              RAIL TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Assessment.--The Under Secretary of Homeland Security for 
Intelligence and Analysis shall conduct an intelligence assessment of 
the security of domestic oil refineries and related rail transportation 
infrastructure.
    (b) Submission.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for 
Intelligence and Analysis shall submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees--
            (1) the results of the assessment required under subsection 
        (a); and
            (2) any recommendations with respect to intelligence 
        sharing or intelligence collection to improve the security of 
        domestic oil refineries and related rail transportation 
        infrastructure to protect the communities surrounding such 
        refineries or such infrastructure from potential harm that the 
        Under Secretary considers appropriate.

SEC. 328. REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Repeal of Reporting Requirements.--
            (1) Threat of attack on the united states using weapons of 
        mass destruction.--Section 114 of the National Security Act of 
        1947 (50 U.S.C. 3050) is amended by striking subsection (b).
            (2) Treaty on conventional armed forces in europe.--Section 
        2(5)(E) of the Senate resolution advising and consenting to 
        ratification of the Document Agreed Among the States Parties to 
        the Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe (CFE) of 
        November 19, 1990, adopted at Vienna May 31, 1996 (Treaty Doc. 
        105-5) (commonly referred to as the ``CFE Flank Document''), 
        105th Congress, agreed to May 14, 1997, is repealed.
    (b) Modification of Reporting Requirements.--
            (1) Intelligence advisory committees.--Section 410(b) of 
        the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (50 
        U.S.C. 3309) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Notification of Establishment of Advisory Committee.--The 
Director of National Intelligence and the Director of the Central 
Intelligence Agency shall each notify the congressional intelligence 
committees each time each such Director creates an advisory committee. 
Each notification shall include--
            ``(1) a description of such advisory committee, including 
        the subject matter of such committee;
            ``(2) a list of members of such advisory committee; and
            ``(3) in the case of an advisory committee created by the 
        Director of National Intelligence, the reasons for a 
        determination by the Director under section 4(b)(3) of the 
        Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) that an advisory 
        committee cannot comply with the requirements of such Act.''.
            (2) Intelligence information sharing.--Section 102A(g)(4) 
        of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3024(g)(4)) is 
        amended to read as follows:
    ``(4) The Director of National Intelligence shall, in a timely 
manner, report to Congress any statute, regulation, policy, or practice 
that the Director believes impedes the ability of the Director to fully 
and effectively ensure maximum availability of access to intelligence 
information within the intelligence community consistent with the 
protection of the national security of the United States.''.
            (3) Intelligence community business system 
        transformation.--Section 506D(j) of the National Security Act 
        of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3100(j)) is amended in the matter preceding 
        paragraph (1) by striking ``2015'' and inserting ``2014''.
            (4) Activities of privacy and civil liberties officers.--
        Section 1062(f)(1) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism 
        Prevention Act of 2004 (42 U.S.C. 2000ee-1(f)(1)) is amended in 
        the matter preceding subparagraph (A) by striking ``quarterly'' 
        and inserting ``semiannually''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--The National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in the table of contents in the first section, by 
        striking the item relating to section 114 and inserting the 
        following new item:

``Sec. 114. Annual report on hiring and retention of minority 
                            employees.'';
            (2) in section 114 (50 U.S.C. 3050)--
                    (A) by amending the heading to read as follows: 
                ``annual report on hiring and retention of minority 
                employees'';
                    (B) by striking ``(a) Annual Report on Hiring and 
                Retention of Minority Employees.--'';
                    (C) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (5) as 
                subsections (a) through (e), respectively;
                    (D) in subsection (b) (as so redesignated)--
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) 
                        through (C) as paragraphs (1) through (3), 
                        respectively; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (2) (as so 
                        redesignated)--
                                    (I) by redesignating clauses (i) 
                                and (ii) as subparagraphs (A) and (B), 
                                respectively; and
                                    (II) in the matter preceding 
                                subparagraph (A) (as so redesignated), 
                                by striking ``clauses (i) and (ii)'' 
                                and inserting ``subparagraphs (A) and 
                                (B)'';
                    (E) in subsection (d) (as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (C) of this paragraph), by striking 
                ``subsection'' and inserting ``section''; and
                    (F) in subsection (e) (as redesignated by 
                subparagraph (C) of this paragraph)--
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) 
                        through (C) as paragraphs (1) through (3), 
                        respectively; and
                            (ii) by striking ``subsection,'' and 
                        inserting ``section''; and
            (3) in section 507 (50 U.S.C. 3106)--
                    (A) in subsection (a)--
                            (i) by striking ``(1) The date'' and 
                        inserting ``The date'';
                            (ii) by striking ``subsection (c)(1)(A)'' 
                        and inserting ``subsection (c)(1)'';
                            (iii) by striking paragraph (2); and
                            (iv) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) 
                        through (F) as paragraphs (1) through (6), 
                        respectively;
                    (B) in subsection (c)(1)--
                            (i) by striking ``(A) Except'' and 
                        inserting ``Except''; and
                            (ii) by striking subparagraph (B); and
                    (C) in subsection (d)(1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) by striking ``subsection 
                                (a)(1)'' and inserting ``subsection 
                                (a)''; and
                                    (II) by inserting ``and'' after 
                                ``March 1;'';
                            (ii) by striking subparagraph (B); and
                            (iii) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as 
                        subparagraph (B).

  TITLE IV--MATTERS RELATING TO ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY

SEC. 401. GIFTS, DEVISES, AND BEQUESTS TO THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE 
              AGENCY.

    Section 12 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 
U.S.C. 3512) is amended--
            (1) by striking the section heading and inserting ``gifts, 
        devises, and bequests'';
            (2) in subsection (a)(2)--
                    (A) by inserting ``by the Director as a gift to the 
                Agency'' after ``accepted''; and
                    (B) by striking ``this section'' and inserting 
                ``this subsection'';
            (3) in subsection (b), by striking ``this section,'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (a),'';
            (4) in subsection (c), by striking ``this section,'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (a),'';
            (5) in subsection (d), by striking ``this section'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (a)'';
            (6) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
            (7) by inserting after subsection (e) the following:
    ``(f)(1) The Director may engage in fundraising in an official 
capacity for the benefit of nonprofit organizations that provide 
support to surviving family members of deceased Agency employees or 
that otherwise provide support for the welfare, education, or 
recreation of Agency employees, former Agency employees, or their 
family members.
    ``(2) In this subsection, the term `fundraising' means the raising 
of funds through the active participation in the promotion, production, 
or presentation of an event designed to raise funds and does not 
include the direct solicitation of money by any other means.''.

SEC. 402. INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.

    (a) Elevation of Inspector General Status.--The Inspector General 
Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended--
            (1) in section 8G(a)(2), by striking ``the National 
        Security Agency,''; and
            (2) in section 12--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``the National 
                Security Agency,'' after ``the Federal Emergency 
                Management Agency,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``the National 
                Security Agency,'' after ``the National Aeronautics and 
                Space Administration,''.
    (b) Date of Appointment.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the President shall nominate a person for 
appointment, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, as 
Inspector General of the National Security Agency under section 3(a) of 
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) consistent with the 
amendments made by subsection (a).
    (c) Transition Rule.--An individual serving as Inspector General of 
the National Security Agency on the date of the enactment of this Act 
pursuant to an appointment made under section 8G of the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.)--
            (1) may continue so serving until the President makes an 
        appointment under section 3(a) of such Act with respect to the 
        National Security Agency consistent with the amendments made by 
        subsection (a); and
            (2) shall, while serving under paragraph (1), remain 
        subject to the provisions of section 8G of such Act that, 
        immediately before the date of the enactment of this Act, 
        applied with respect to the Inspector General of the National 
        Security Agency and suffer no reduction in pay.
    (d) Special Provisions Concerning the National Security Agency.--
The Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by 
inserting after section 8J the following new section:

``SEC. 8K. SPECIAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.

    ``(a) General Counsel to the Inspector General.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is a General Counsel to the 
        Inspector General of the National Security Agency, who shall be 
        appointed by the Inspector General of the National Security 
        Agency.
            ``(2) Duties.--The General Counsel to the Inspector General 
        of the National Security Agency shall--
                    ``(A) serve as the chief legal officer of the 
                Office of the Inspector General of the National 
                Security Agency;
                    ``(B) provide legal services only to the Inspector 
                General of the National Security Agency;
                    ``(C) prescribe professional rules of ethics and 
                responsibilities for employees and officers of, and 
                contractors to, the National Security Agency;
                    ``(D) perform such functions as the Inspector 
                General may prescribe; and
                    ``(E) serve at the discretion of the Inspector 
                General.
            ``(3) Office of the general counsel.--There is an Office of 
        the General Counsel to the Inspector General of the National 
        Security Agency. The Inspector General may appoint to the 
        Office to serve as staff of the General Counsel such legal 
        counsel as the Inspector General considers appropriate.
    ``(b) Testimony.--
            ``(1) Authority to compel.--The Inspector General of the 
        National Security Agency is authorized to require by subpoena 
        the attendance and testimony of former employees of the 
        National Security Agency or contractors, former contractors, or 
        former detailees to the National Security Agency as necessary 
        in the performance of functions assigned to the Inspector 
        General by this Act.
            ``(2) Refusal to obey.--A subpoena issued under this 
        subsection, in the case of contumacy or refusal to obey, shall 
        be enforceable by order of any appropriate United States 
        district court.
            ``(3) Notification.--The Inspector General shall notify the 
        Attorney General 7 days before issuing any subpoena under this 
        section.
    ``(c) Prohibitions on Investigations for National Security 
Reasons.--
            ``(1) Evaluations of prohibitions.--Not later than 7 days 
        after the date on which the Inspector General of the National 
        Security Agency receives notice or a statement under section 
        8G(d)(2)(C) of the reasons the Secretary of Defense is 
        prohibiting the Inspector General from initiating, carrying 
        out, or completing any audit or investigation, the Inspector 
        General shall submit to the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence and the Committee on Armed Services of the House 
        of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence and 
        the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate an evaluation of 
        such notice or such statement.
            ``(2) Inclusion in semi-annual report.--The Inspector 
        General shall include in the semiannual report prepared by the 
        Inspector General in accordance with section 5(a) a description 
        of the instances in which the Secretary of Defense prohibited 
        the Inspector General from initiating, carrying out, or 
        completing any audit or investigation during the period covered 
        by such report.''.

                   TITLE V--SECURITY CLEARANCE REFORM

SEC. 501. CONTINUOUS EVALUATION AND SHARING OF DEROGATORY INFORMATION 
              REGARDING PERSONNEL WITH ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED 
              INFORMATION.

    Section 102A(j) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3024(j)) is amended--
            (1) in the heading, by striking ``Sensitive Compartmented 
        Information'' and inserting ``Classified Information'';
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (3) in paragraph (4), by striking the period and inserting 
        a semicolon; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
            ``(5) ensure that the background of each employee or 
        officer of an element of the intelligence community, each 
        contractor to an element of the intelligence community, and 
        each individual employee of such a contractor who has been 
        determined to be eligible for access to classified information 
        is monitored on a continual basis under standards developed by 
        the Director, including with respect to the frequency of 
        evaluation, during the period of eligibility of such employee 
        or officer of an element of the intelligence community, such 
        contractor, or such individual employee to such a contractor to 
        determine whether such employee or officer of an element of the 
        intelligence community, such contractor, and such individual 
        employee of such a contractor continues to meet the 
        requirements for eligibility for access to classified 
        information; and
            ``(6) develop procedures to require information sharing 
        between elements of the intelligence community concerning 
        potentially derogatory security information regarding an 
        employee or officer of an element of the intelligence 
        community, a contractor to an element of the intelligence 
        community, or an individual employee of such a contractor that 
        may impact the eligibility of such employee or officer of an 
        element of the intelligence community, such contractor, or such 
        individual employee of such a contractor for a security 
        clearance.''.

SEC. 502. REQUIREMENTS FOR INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY CONTRACTORS.

    (a) Requirements.--Section 102A of the National Security Act of 
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3024) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(x) Requirements for Intelligence Community Contractors.--The 
Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the head of 
each department of the Federal Government that contains an element of 
the intelligence community and the Director of the Central Intelligence 
Agency, shall--
            ``(1) ensure that--
                    ``(A) any contractor to an element of the 
                intelligence community with access to a classified 
                network or classified information develops and operates 
                a security plan that is consistent with standards 
                established by the Director of National Intelligence 
                for intelligence community networks; and
                    ``(B) each contract awarded by an element of the 
                intelligence community includes provisions requiring 
                the contractor comply with such plan and such 
                standards;
            ``(2) conduct periodic assessments of each security plan 
        required under paragraph (1)(A) to ensure such security plan 
        complies with the requirements of such paragraph; and
            ``(3) ensure that the insider threat detection capabilities 
        and insider threat policies of the intelligence community apply 
        to facilities of contractors with access to a classified 
        network.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to contracts entered into or renewed after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 503. TECHNOLOGY IMPROVEMENTS TO SECURITY CLEARANCE PROCESSING.

    (a) In General.--The Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Director of the 
Office of Personnel Management, shall conduct an analysis of the 
relative costs and benefits of potential improvements to the process 
for investigating persons who are proposed for access to classified 
information and adjudicating whether such persons satisfy the criteria 
for obtaining and retaining access to such information.
    (b) Contents of Analysis.--In conducting the analysis required by 
subsection (a), the Director of National Intelligence shall evaluate 
the costs and benefits associated with--
            (1) the elimination of manual processes in security 
        clearance investigations and adjudications, if possible, and 
        automating and integrating the elements of the investigation 
        process, including--
                    (A) the clearance application process;
                    (B) case management;
                    (C) adjudication management;
                    (D) investigation methods for the collection, 
                analysis, storage, retrieval, and transfer of data and 
                records; and
                    (E) records management for access and eligibility 
                determinations;
            (2) the elimination or reduction, if possible, of the use 
        of databases and information sources that cannot be accessed 
        and processed automatically electronically, or modification of 
        such databases and information sources, to enable electronic 
        access and processing;
            (3) the use of government-developed and commercial 
        technology for continuous monitoring and evaluation of 
        government and commercial data sources that can identify and 
        flag information pertinent to adjudication guidelines and 
        eligibility determinations;
            (4) the standardization of forms used for routine reporting 
        required of cleared personnel (such as travel, foreign 
        contacts, and financial disclosures) and use of continuous 
        monitoring technology to access databases containing such 
        reportable information to independently obtain and analyze 
        reportable data and events;
            (5) the establishment of an authoritative central 
        repository of personnel security information that is accessible 
        electronically at multiple levels of classification and 
        eliminates technical barriers to rapid access to information 
        necessary for eligibility determinations and reciprocal 
        recognition thereof;
            (6) using digitally processed fingerprints, as a substitute 
        for ink or paper prints, to reduce error rates and improve 
        portability of data;
            (7) expanding the use of technology to improve an 
        applicant's ability to discover the status of a pending 
        security clearance application or reinvestigation; and
            (8) using government and publicly available commercial data 
        sources, including social media, that provide independent 
        information pertinent to adjudication guidelines to improve 
        quality and timeliness, and reduce costs, of investigations and 
        reinvestigations.
    (c) Report to Congress.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
analysis required by subsection (a).

SEC. 504. REPORT ON RECIPROCITY OF SECURITY CLEARANCES.

    The head of the entity selected pursuant to section 3001(b) of the 
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 
3341(b)) shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
report each year through 2017 that describes for the preceding year--
            (1) the periods of time required by authorized adjudicative 
        agencies for accepting background investigations and 
        determinations completed by an authorized investigative entity 
        or authorized adjudicative agency;
            (2) the total number of cases in which a background 
        investigation or determination completed by an authorized 
        investigative entity or authorized adjudicative agency is 
        accepted by another agency;
            (3) the total number of cases in which a background 
        investigation or determination completed by an authorized 
        investigative entity or authorized adjudicative agency is not 
        accepted by another agency; and
            (4) such other information or recommendations as the head 
        of the entity selected pursuant to such section 3001(b) 
        considers appropriate.

SEC. 505. IMPROVING THE PERIODIC REINVESTIGATION PROCESS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until December 31, 2017, 
the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense and the Director of the Office of Personnel 
Management, shall transmit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
strategic plan for updating the process for periodic reinvestigations 
consistent with a continuous evaluation program.
    (b) Contents.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) an analysis of the costs and benefits associated with 
        conducting periodic reinvestigations;
            (2) an analysis of the costs and benefits associated with 
        replacing some or all periodic reinvestigations with a program 
        of continuous evaluation;
            (3) a determination of how many risk-based and ad hoc 
        periodic reinvestigations are necessary on an annual basis for 
        each component of the Federal Government with employees with 
        security clearances;
            (4) an analysis of the potential benefits of expanding the 
        Government's use of continuous evaluation tools as a means of 
        improving the effectiveness and efficiency of procedures for 
        confirming the eligibility of personnel for continued access to 
        classified information; and
            (5) an analysis of how many personnel with out-of-scope 
        background investigations are employed by, or contracted or 
        detailed to, each element of the intelligence community.
    (c) Periodic Reinvestigations Defined.--In this section, the term 
``periodic reinvestigations'' has the meaning given that term in 
section 3001(a) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act 
of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(a)).

SEC. 506. APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS DEFINED.

    In this title, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
means--
            (1) the congressional intelligence committees;
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
            (3) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.

                     TITLE VI--TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS

SEC. 601. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY ACT 
              OF 1949.

    Section 21 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 
U.S.C. 3521) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1)(D), by striking ``section (a)'' 
        and inserting ``subsection (a)''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(2)(E), by striking ``provider.'' and 
        inserting ``provider''.

SEC. 602. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE NATIONAL SECURITY ACT OF 1947 
              RELATING TO THE PAST ELIMINATION OF CERTAIN POSITIONS.

    Section 101(a) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3021(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5), by striking the semicolon and 
        inserting ``; and'';
            (2) by striking paragraphs (6) and (7);
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (6); and
            (4) in paragraph (6) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``the Chairman of the Munitions Board, and the Chairman of the 
        Research and Development Board,''.

SEC. 603. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION ACT 
              FOR FISCAL YEAR 2013.

    (a) Amendments.--Section 506 of the Intelligence Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-277; 126 Stat. 2478) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Section 606(5)'' and inserting 
        ``Paragraph (5) of section 605''; and
            (2) by inserting ``, as redesignated by section 
        310(a)(4)(B) of this Act,'' before ``is amended''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect as if included in the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-277).
                                                 Union Calendar No. 343

113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4681

                          [Report No. 113-463]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

    To authorize appropriations for fiscal years 2014 and 2015 for 
 intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the United States 
     Government, the Community Management Account, and the Central 
  Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, and for other 
                               purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 27, 2014

  Reported with an amendment, committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
