
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4980 Engrossed in House (EH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 4980

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To prevent and address sex trafficking of children in foster care, to 
 extend and improve adoption incentives, and to improve international 
                        child support recovery.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Preventing Sex Trafficking and 
Strengthening Families Act''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents of this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. References.
   TITLE I--PROTECTING CHILDREN AND YOUTH AT RISK OF SEX TRAFFICKING

 Subtitle A--Identifying and Protecting Children and Youth at Risk of 
                            Sex Trafficking

Sec. 101. Identifying, documenting, and determining services for 
                            children and youth at risk of sex 
                            trafficking.
Sec. 102. Reporting instances of sex trafficking.
Sec. 103. Including sex trafficking data in the Adoption and Foster 
                            Care Analysis and Reporting System.
Sec. 104. Locating and responding to children who run away from foster 
                            care.
Sec. 105. Increasing information on children in foster care to prevent 
                            sex trafficking.
  Subtitle B--Improving Opportunities for Children in Foster Care and 
                         Supporting Permanency

Sec. 111. Supporting normalcy for children in foster care.
Sec. 112. Improving another planned permanent living arrangement as a 
                            permanency option.
Sec. 113. Empowering foster children age 14 and older in the 
                            development of their own case plan and 
                            transition planning for a successful 
                            adulthood.
Sec. 114. Ensuring foster children have a birth certificate, Social 
                            Security card, health insurance 
                            information, medical records, and a 
                            driver's license or equivalent State-issued 
                            identification card.
Sec. 115. Information on children in foster care in annual reports 
                            using AFCARS data; consultation.
                Subtitle C--National Advisory Committee

Sec. 121. Establishment of a national advisory committee on the sex 
                            trafficking of children and youth in the 
                            United States.
TITLE II--IMPROVING ADOPTION INCENTIVES AND EXTENDING FAMILY CONNECTION 
                                 GRANTS

           Subtitle A--Improving Adoption Incentive Payments

Sec. 201. Extension of program through fiscal year 2016.
Sec. 202. Improvements to award structure.
Sec. 203. Renaming of program.
Sec. 204. Limitation on use of incentive payments.
Sec. 205. Increase in period for which incentive payments are available 
                            for expenditure.
Sec. 206. State report on calculation and use of savings resulting from 
                            the phase-out of eligibility requirements 
                            for adoption assistance; requirement to 
                            spend 30 percent of savings on certain 
                            services.
Sec. 207. Preservation of eligibility for kinship guardianship 
                            assistance payments with a successor 
                            guardian.
Sec. 208. Data collection on adoption and legal guardianship disruption 
                            and dissolution.
Sec. 209. Encouraging the placement of children in foster care with 
                            siblings.
Sec. 210. Effective dates.
       Subtitle B--Extending the Family Connection Grant Program

Sec. 221. Extension of family connection grant program.
       TITLE III--IMPROVING INTERNATIONAL CHILD SUPPORT RECOVERY

Sec. 301. Amendments to ensure access to child support services for 
                            international child support cases.
Sec. 302. Child support enforcement programs for Indian tribes.
Sec. 303. Sense of the Congress regarding offering of voluntary 
                            parenting time arrangements.
Sec. 304. Data exchange standardization for improved interoperability.
Sec. 305. Report to Congress.
Sec. 306. Required electronic processing of income withholding.
                      TITLE IV--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

Sec. 401. Determination of budgetary effects.

SEC. 3. REFERENCES.

    Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, wherever in 
this Act an amendment is expressed in terms of an amendment to a 
section or other provision, the amendment shall be considered to be 
made to a section or other provision of the Social Security Act.

   TITLE I--PROTECTING CHILDREN AND YOUTH AT RISK OF SEX TRAFFICKING

 Subtitle A--Identifying and Protecting Children and Youth at Risk of 
                            Sex Trafficking

SEC. 101. IDENTIFYING, DOCUMENTING, AND DETERMINING SERVICES FOR 
              CHILDREN AND YOUTH AT RISK OF SEX TRAFFICKING.

    (a) In General.--Section 471(a)(9) (42 U.S.C. 671(a)(9)) is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'';
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``and'' after the 
        semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) not later than--
                            ``(i) 1 year after the date of enactment of 
                        this subparagraph, demonstrate to the Secretary 
                        that the State agency has developed, in 
                        consultation with State and local law 
                        enforcement, juvenile justice systems, health 
                        care providers, education agencies, and 
                        organizations with experience in dealing with 
                        at-risk children and youth, policies and 
                        procedures (including relevant training for 
                        caseworkers) for identifying, documenting in 
                        agency records, and determining appropriate 
                        services with respect to--
                                    ``(I) any child or youth over whom 
                                the State agency has responsibility for 
                                placement, care, or supervision and who 
                                the State has reasonable cause to 
                                believe is, or is at risk of being, a 
                                sex trafficking victim (including 
                                children for whom a State child welfare 
                                agency has an open case file but who 
                                have not been removed from the home, 
                                children who have run away from foster 
                                care and who have not attained 18 years 
                                of age or such older age as the State 
                                has elected under section 475(8) of 
                                this Act, and youth who are not in 
                                foster care but are receiving services 
                                under section 477 of this Act); and
                                    ``(II) at the option of the State, 
                                any individual who has not attained 26 
                                years of age, without regard to whether 
                                the individual is or was in foster care 
                                under the responsibility of the State; 
                                and
                            ``(ii) 2 years after such date of 
                        enactment, demonstrate to the Secretary that 
                        the State agency is implementing the policies 
                        and procedures referred to in clause (i).''.
    (b) Definition of Sex Trafficking Victim.--Section 475 (42 U.S.C. 
675) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(9) The term `sex trafficking victim' means a victim of--
                    ``(A) sex trafficking (as defined in section 
                103(10) of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 
                2000); or
                    ``(B) a severe form of trafficking in persons 
                described in section 103(9)(A) of such Act.''.

SEC. 102. REPORTING INSTANCES OF SEX TRAFFICKING.

    (a) State Plan Requirements.--Section 471(a) (42 U.S.C. 671(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (32);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (33) and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(34) provides that, for each child or youth described in 
        paragraph (9)(C)(i)(I), the State agency shall--
                    ``(A) not later than 2 years after the date of the 
                enactment of this paragraph, report immediately, and in 
                no case later than 24 hours after receiving information 
                on children or youth who have been identified as being 
                a sex trafficking victim, to the law enforcement 
                authorities; and
                    ``(B) not later than 3 years after such date of 
                enactment and annually thereafter, report to the 
                Secretary the total number of children and youth who 
                are sex trafficking victims.''.
    (b) Duties of the Secretary.--Section 471 (42 U.S.C. 671) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Annual Reports by the Secretary on Number of Children and 
Youth Reported by States To Be Sex Trafficking Victims.--Not later than 
4 years after the date of the enactment of this subsection and annually 
thereafter, the Secretary shall report to the Congress and make 
available to the public on the Internet website of the Department of 
Health and Human Services the number of children and youth reported in 
accordance with subsection (a)(34)(B) of this section to be sex 
trafficking victims (as defined in section 475(9)(A)).''.

SEC. 103. INCLUDING SEX TRAFFICKING DATA IN THE ADOPTION AND FOSTER 
              CARE ANALYSIS AND REPORTING SYSTEM.

    Section 479(c)(3) (42 U.S.C. 679(c)(3)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (C)(iii), by striking ``and'' after the 
        comma; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) the annual number of children in foster care 
                who are identified as sex trafficking victims--
                            ``(i) who were such victims before entering 
                        foster care; and
                            ``(ii) who were such victims while in 
                        foster care; and''.

SEC. 104. LOCATING AND RESPONDING TO CHILDREN WHO RUN AWAY FROM FOSTER 
              CARE.

    Section 471(a) (42 U.S.C. 671(a)), as amended by section 102(a) of 
this Act, is amended--
            (1) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (34) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(35) provides that--
                    ``(A) not later than 1 year after the date of the 
                enactment of this paragraph, the State shall develop 
                and implement specific protocols for--
                            ``(i) expeditiously locating any child 
                        missing from foster care;
                            ``(ii) determining the primary factors that 
                        contributed to the child's running away or 
                        otherwise being absent from care, and to the 
                        extent possible and appropriate, responding to 
                        those factors in current and subsequent 
                        placements;
                            ``(iii) determining the child's experiences 
                        while absent from care, including screening the 
                        child to determine if the child is a possible 
                        sex trafficking victim (as defined in section 
                        475(9)(A)); and
                            ``(iv) reporting such related information 
                        as required by the Secretary; and
                    ``(B) not later than 2 years after such date of 
                enactment, for each child and youth described in 
                paragraph (9)(C)(i)(I) of this subsection, the State 
                agency shall report immediately, and in no case later 
                than 24 hours after receiving, information on missing 
                or abducted children or youth to the law enforcement 
                authorities for entry into the National Crime 
                Information Center (NCIC) database of the Federal 
                Bureau of Investigation, established pursuant to 
                section 534 of title 28, United States Code, and to the 
                National Center for Missing and Exploited Children.''.

SEC. 105. INCREASING INFORMATION ON CHILDREN IN FOSTER CARE TO PREVENT 
              SEX TRAFFICKING.

    Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to the Congress 
a written report which summarizes the following:
            (1) Information on children who run away from foster care 
        and their risk of becoming sex trafficking victims, using data 
        reported by States under section 479 of the Social Security Act 
        and information collected by States related to section 
        471(a)(35) of such Act, including--
                    (A) characteristics of children who run away from 
                foster care;
                    (B) potential factors associated with children 
                running away from foster care (such as reason for entry 
                into care, length of stay in care, type of placement, 
                and other factors that contributed to the child's 
                running away);
                    (C) information on children's experiences while 
                absent from care; and
                    (D) trends in the number of children reported as 
                runaways in each fiscal year (including factors that 
                may have contributed to changes in such trends).
            (2) Information on State efforts to provide specialized 
        services, foster family homes, child care institutions, or 
        other forms of placement for children who are sex trafficking 
        victims.
            (3) Information on State efforts to ensure children in 
        foster care form and maintain long-lasting connections to 
        caring adults, even when a child in foster care must move to 
        another foster family home or when the child is placed under 
        the supervision of a new caseworker.

  Subtitle B--Improving Opportunities for Children in Foster Care and 
                         Supporting Permanency

SEC. 111. SUPPORTING NORMALCY FOR CHILDREN IN FOSTER CARE.

    (a) Reasonable and Prudent Parent Standard.--
            (1) Definitions relating to the standard.--Section 475 (42 
        U.S.C. 675), as amended by section 101(b) of this Act, is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(10)(A) The term `reasonable and prudent parent standard' 
        means the standard characterized by careful and sensible 
        parental decisions that maintain the health, safety, and best 
        interests of a child while at the same time encouraging the 
        emotional and developmental growth of the child, that a 
        caregiver shall use when determining whether to allow a child 
        in foster care under the responsibility of the State to 
        participate in extracurricular, enrichment, cultural, and 
        social activities.
            ``(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term 
        `caregiver' means a foster parent with whom a child in foster 
        care has been placed or a designated official for a child care 
        institution in which a child in foster care has been placed.
            ``(11)(A) The term `age or developmentally-appropriate' 
        means--
                    ``(i) activities or items that are generally 
                accepted as suitable for children of the same 
                chronological age or level of maturity or that are 
                determined to be developmentally-appropriate for a 
                child, based on the development of cognitive, 
                emotional, physical, and behavioral capacities that are 
                typical for an age or age group; and
                    ``(ii) in the case of a specific child, activities 
                or items that are suitable for the child based on the 
                developmental stages attained by the child with respect 
                to the cognitive, emotional, physical, and behavioral 
                capacities of the child.
            ``(B) In the event that any age-related activities have 
        implications relative to the academic curriculum of a child, 
        nothing in this part or part B shall be construed to authorize 
        an officer or employee of the Federal Government to mandate, 
        direct, or control a State or local educational agency, or the 
        specific instructional content, academic achievement standards 
        and assessments, curriculum, or program of instruction of a 
        school.''.
            (2) State plan requirement.--Section 471(a)(24) (42 U.S.C. 
        671(a)(24)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``include'' and inserting 
                ``includes'';
                    (B) by striking ``and that such preparation'' and 
                inserting ``that the preparation''; and
                    (C) by inserting ``, and that the preparation shall 
                include knowledge and skills relating to the reasonable 
                and prudent parent standard for the participation of 
                the child in age or developmentally-appropriate 
                activities, including knowledge and skills relating to 
                the developmental stages of the cognitive, emotional, 
                physical, and behavioral capacities of a child, and 
                knowledge and skills relating to applying the standard 
                to decisions such as whether to allow the child to 
                engage in social, extracurricular, enrichment, 
                cultural, and social activities, including sports, 
                field trips, and overnight activities lasting 1 or more 
                days, and to decisions involving the signing of 
                permission slips and arranging of transportation for 
                the child to and from extracurricular, enrichment, and 
                social activities'' before the semicolon.
            (3) Technical assistance.--The Secretary of Health and 
        Human Services shall provide assistance to the States on best 
        practices for devising strategies to assist foster parents in 
        applying a reasonable and prudent parent standard in a manner 
        that protects child safety, while also allowing children to 
        experience normal and beneficial activities, including methods 
        for appropriately considering the concerns of the biological 
        parents of a child in decisions related to participation of the 
        child in activities (with the understanding that those concerns 
        should not necessarily determine the participation of the child 
        in any activity).
    (b) Normalcy for Children in Child Care Institutions.--Section 
471(a)(10) (42 U.S.C. 671(a)(10)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(10) provides--
                    ``(A) for the establishment or designation of a 
                State authority or authorities that shall be 
                responsible for establishing and maintaining standards 
                for foster family homes and child care institutions 
                which are reasonably in accord with recommended 
                standards of national organizations concerned with 
                standards for the institutions or homes, including 
                standards related to admission policies, safety, 
                sanitation, and protection of civil rights, and which 
                shall permit use of the reasonable and prudent 
                parenting standard;
                    ``(B) that the standards established pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) shall be applied by the State to any 
                foster family home or child care institution receiving 
                funds under this part or part B and shall require, as a 
                condition of each contract entered into by a child care 
                institution to provide foster care, the presence on-
                site of at least 1 official who, with respect to any 
                child placed at the child care institution, is 
                designated to be the caregiver who is authorized to 
                apply the reasonable and prudent parent standard to 
                decisions involving the participation of the child in 
                age or developmentally-appropriate activities, and who 
                is provided with training in how to use and apply the 
                reasonable and prudent parent standard in the same 
                manner as prospective foster parents are provided the 
                training pursuant to paragraph (24);
                    ``(C) that the standards established pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) shall include policies related to the 
                liability of foster parents and private entities under 
                contract by the State involving the application of the 
                reasonable and prudent parent standard, to ensure 
                appropriate liability for caregivers when a child 
                participates in an approved activity and the caregiver 
                approving the activity acts in accordance with the 
                reasonable and prudent parent standard; and
                    ``(D) that a waiver of any standards established 
                pursuant to subparagraph (A) may be made only on a 
                case-by-case basis for nonsafety standards (as 
                determined by the State) in relative foster family 
                homes for specific children in care;''.
    (c) Supporting Participation in Age-Appropriate Activities.--
            (1) Section 477(a) (42 U.S.C. 677(a)) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph 
                (6);
                    (B) by striking the period at the end of paragraph 
                (7) and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) to ensure children who are likely to remain in foster 
        care until 18 years of age have regular, ongoing opportunities 
        to engage in age or developmentally-appropriate activities as 
        defined in section 475(11).''.
            (2) Section 477(h)(1) (42 U.S.C. 677(h)(1)) is amended by 
        inserting ``or, beginning in fiscal year 2020, $143,000,000'' 
        after ``$140,000,000''.
    (d) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (2) Delay permitted if state legislation required.--If the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services determines that State 
        legislation (other than legislation appropriating funds) is 
        required in order for a State plan developed pursuant to part E 
        of title IV of the Social Security Act to meet the additional 
        requirements imposed by the amendments made by this section, 
        the plan shall not be regarded as failing to meet any of the 
        additional requirements before the 1st day of the 1st calendar 
        quarter beginning after the 1st regular session of the State 
        legislature that begins after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act. If the State has a 2-year legislative session, each year 
        of the session is deemed to be a separate regular session of 
        the State legislature.

SEC. 112. IMPROVING ANOTHER PLANNED PERMANENT LIVING ARRANGEMENT AS A 
              PERMANENCY OPTION.

    (a) Elimination of Another Planned Permanent Living Arrangement for 
Children Under Age 16.--
            (1) In general.--Section 475(5)(C)(i) (42 U.S.C. 
        675(5)(C)(i)) is amended by inserting ``only in the case of a 
        child who has attained 16 years of age'' before ``(in cases 
        where''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 422(b)(8)(A)(iii)(II) 
        (42 U.S.C. 622(b)(8)(A)(iii)(II)) is amended by inserting ``, 
        subject to the requirements of sections 475(5)(C) and 475A(a)'' 
        after ``arrangement''.
            (3) Delayed applicability with respect to certain 
        children.--In the case of children in foster care under the 
        responsibility of an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or 
        tribal consortium (either directly or under supervision of a 
        State), the amendments made by this subsection shall not apply 
        until the date that is 3 years after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act.
    (b) Additional Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--Part E of title IV (42 U.S.C. 670 et seq.) 
        is amended by inserting after section 475 the following:

``SEC. 475A. ADDITIONAL CASE PLAN AND CASE REVIEW SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.

    ``(a) Requirements for Another Planned Permanent Living 
Arrangement.--In the case of any child for whom another planned 
permanent living arrangement is the permanency plan determined for the 
child under section 475(5)(C), the following requirements shall apply 
for purposes of approving the case plan for the child and the case 
system review procedure for the child:
            ``(1) Documentation of intensive, ongoing, unsuccessful 
        efforts for family placement.--At each permanency hearing held 
        with respect to the child, the State agency documents the 
        intensive, ongoing, and, as of the date of the hearing, 
        unsuccessful efforts made by the State agency to return the 
        child home or secure a placement for the child with a fit and 
        willing relative (including adult siblings), a legal guardian, 
        or an adoptive parent, including through efforts that utilize 
        search technology (including social media) to find biological 
        family members for the children.
            ``(2) Redetermination of appropriateness of placement at 
        each permanency hearing.--The State agency shall implement 
        procedures to ensure that, at each permanency hearing held with 
        respect to the child, the court or administrative body 
        appointed or approved by the court conducting the hearing on 
        the permanency plan for the child does the following:
                    ``(A) Ask the child about the desired permanency 
                outcome for the child.
                    ``(B) Make a judicial determination explaining why, 
                as of the date of the hearing, another planned 
                permanent living arrangement is the best permanency 
                plan for the child and provide compelling reasons why 
                it continues to not be in the best interests of the 
                child to--
                            ``(i) return home;
                            ``(ii) be placed for adoption;
                            ``(iii) be placed with a legal guardian; or
                            ``(iv) be placed with a fit and willing 
                        relative.
            ``(3) Demonstration of support for engaging in age or 
        developmentally-appropriate activities and social events.--At 
        each permanency hearing held with respect to the child, the 
        State agency shall document the steps the State agency is 
        taking to ensure that--
                    ``(A) the child's foster family home or child care 
                institution is following the reasonable and prudent 
                parent standard; and
                    ``(B) the child has regular, ongoing opportunities 
                to engage in age or developmentally appropriate 
                activities (including by consulting with the child in 
                an age-appropriate manner about the opportunities of 
                the child to participate in the activities).''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) State plan requirements.--
                            (i) Part b.--Section 422(b)(8)(A)(ii) (42 
                        U.S.C. 622(b)(8)(A)(ii)) is amended by 
                        inserting ``and in accordance with the 
                        requirements of section 475A'' after ``section 
                        475(5)''.
                            (ii) Part e.--Section 471(a)(16) (42 U.S.C. 
                        671(a)(16)) is amended--
                                    (I) by inserting ``and in 
                                accordance with the requirements of 
                                section 475A'' after ``section 
                                475(1)''; and
                                    (II) by striking ``section 
                                475(5)(B)'' and inserting ``sections 
                                475(5) and 475A''.
                    (B) Definitions.--Section 475 (42 U.S.C. 675) is 
                amended--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), in the matter 
                        preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting 
                        ``meets the requirements of section 475A and'' 
                        after ``written document which''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (5)--
                                    (I) in subparagraph (B), by adding 
                                at the end the following ``and, for a 
                                child for whom another planned 
                                permanent living arrangement has been 
                                determined as the permanency plan, the 
                                steps the State agency is taking to 
                                ensure the child's foster family home 
                                or child care institution is following 
                                the reasonable and prudent parent 
                                standard and to ascertain whether the 
                                child has regular, ongoing 
                                opportunities to engage in age or 
                                developmentally appropriate activities 
                                (including by consulting with the child 
                                in an age-appropriate manner about the 
                                opportunities of the child to 
                                participate in the activities);''; and
                                    (II) in subparagraph (C)--
                                            (aa) by inserting ``, as of 
                                        the date of the hearing,'' 
                                        after ``compelling reason for 
                                        determining''; and
                                            (bb) by inserting ``subject 
                                        to section 475A(a),'' after 
                                        ``another planned permanent 
                                        living arrangement,''.
    (c) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (2) Delay permitted if state legislation required.--If the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services determines that State 
        legislation (other than legislation appropriating funds) is 
        required in order for a State plan developed pursuant to part E 
        of title IV of the Social Security Act to meet the additional 
        requirements imposed by the amendments made by this section, 
        the plan shall not be regarded as failing to meet any of the 
        additional requirements before the 1st day of the 1st calendar 
        quarter beginning after the 1st regular session of the State 
        legislature that begins after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act. If the State has a 2-year legislative session, each year 
        of the session is deemed to be a separate regular session of 
        the State legislature.

SEC. 113. EMPOWERING FOSTER CHILDREN AGE 14 AND OLDER IN THE 
              DEVELOPMENT OF THEIR OWN CASE PLAN AND TRANSITION 
              PLANNING FOR A SUCCESSFUL ADULTHOOD.

    (a) In General.--Section 475(1)(B) (42 U.S.C. 675(1)(B)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following: ``With respect to a child who has 
attained 14 years of age, the plan developed for the child in 
accordance with this paragraph, and any revision or addition to the 
plan, shall be developed in consultation with the child and, at the 
option of the child, with up to 2 members of the case planning team who 
are chosen by the child and who are not a foster parent of, or 
caseworker for, the child. A State may reject an individual selected by 
a child to be a member of the case planning team at any time if the 
State has good cause to believe that the individual would not act in 
the best interests of the child. One individual selected by a child to 
be a member of the child's case planning team may be designated to be 
the child's advisor and, as necessary, advocate, with respect to the 
application of the reasonable and prudent parent standard to the 
child.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments To Include Children 14 and Older in 
Transition Planning.--Section 475 (42 U.S.C. 675) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(D), by striking ``Where appropriate, 
        for a child age 16'' and inserting ``For a child who has 
        attained 14 years of age''; and
            (2) in paragraph (5)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by striking ``16'' and 
                        inserting ``14'';
                            (ii) by striking ``and'' at the end of 
                        clause (ii); and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following: 
                        ``and (iv) if a child has attained 14 years of 
                        age, the permanency plan developed for the 
                        child, and any revision or addition to the 
                        plan, shall be developed in consultation with 
                        the child and, at the option of the child, with 
                        not more than 2 members of the permanency 
                        planning team who are selected by the child and 
                        who are not a foster parent of, or caseworker 
                        for, the child, except that the State may 
                        reject an individual so selected by the child 
                        if the State has good cause to believe that the 
                        individual would not act in the best interests 
                        of the child, and 1 individual so selected by 
                        the child may be designated to be the child's 
                        advisor and, as necessary, advocate, with 
                        respect to the application of the reasonable 
                        and prudent standard to the child;''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (I), by striking ``16'' and 
                inserting ``14''.
    (c) Transition Planning for a Successful Adulthood.--Paragraphs 
(1)(D), (5)(C)(i), and (5)(C)(iii) of section 475 (42 U.S.C. 675) are 
each amended by striking ``independent living'' and inserting ``a 
successful adulthood''.
    (d) List of Rights.--Section 475A, as added by section 112(b)(1) of 
this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) List of Rights.--The case plan for any child in foster care 
under the responsibility of the State who has attained 14 years of age 
shall include--
            ``(1) a document that describes the rights of the child 
        with respect to education, health, visitation, and court 
        participation, the right to be provided with the documents 
        specified in section 475(5)(I) in accordance with that section, 
        and the right to stay safe and avoid exploitation; and
            ``(2) a signed acknowledgment by the child that the child 
        has been provided with a copy of the document and that the 
        rights contained in the document have been explained to the 
        child in an age-appropriate way.''.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit a 
report to Congress regarding the implementation of the amendments made 
by this section. The report shall include--
            (1) an analysis of how States are administering the 
        requirements of paragraphs (1)(B) and (5)(C) of section 475 of 
        the Social Security Act, as amended by subsections (a) and (b) 
        of this section, that a child in foster care who has attained 
        14 years of age be permitted to select up to 2 members of the 
        case planning team or permanency planning team for the child 
        from individuals who are not a foster parent of, or caseworker 
        for, the child; and
            (2) a description of best practices of States with respect 
        to the administration of the requirements.
    (f) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (2) Delay permitted if state legislation required.--If the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services determines that State 
        legislation (other than legislation appropriating funds) is 
        required in order for a State plan developed pursuant to part E 
        of title IV of the Social Security Act to meet the additional 
        requirements imposed by the amendments made by this section, 
        the plan shall not be regarded as failing to meet any of the 
        additional requirements before the 1st day of the 1st calendar 
        quarter beginning after the 1st regular session of the State 
        legislature that begins after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act. If the State has a 2-year legislative session, each year 
        of the session is deemed to be a separate regular session of 
        the State legislature.

SEC. 114. ENSURING FOSTER CHILDREN HAVE A BIRTH CERTIFICATE, SOCIAL 
              SECURITY CARD, HEALTH INSURANCE INFORMATION, MEDICAL 
              RECORDS, AND A DRIVER'S LICENSE OR EQUIVALENT STATE-
              ISSUED IDENTIFICATION CARD.

    (a) Case Review System Requirement.--Section 475(5)(I) (42 U.S.C. 
675(5)(I)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and receives assistance'' and inserting 
        ``receives assistance''; and
            (2) by inserting ``, and, if the child is leaving foster 
        care by reason of having attained 18 years of age or such 
        greater age as the State has elected under paragraph (8), 
        unless the child has been in foster care for less than 6 
        months, is not discharged from care without being provided with 
        (if the child is eligible to receive such document) an official 
        or certified copy of the United States birth certificate of the 
        child, a social security card issued by the Commissioner of 
        Social Security, health insurance information, a copy of the 
        child's medical records, and a driver's license or 
        identification card issued by a State in accordance with the 
        requirements of section 202 of the REAL ID Act of 2005'' before 
        the period.
    (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
        take effect 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Delay permitted if state legislation required.--If the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services determines that State 
        legislation (other than legislation appropriating funds) is 
        required in order for a State plan developed pursuant to part E 
        of title IV of the Social Security Act to meet the additional 
        requirements imposed by the amendments made by this section, 
        the plan shall not be regarded as failing to meet any of the 
        additional requirements before the 1st day of the 1st calendar 
        quarter beginning after the 1st regular session of the State 
        legislature that begins after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act. If the State has a 2-year legislative session, each year 
        of the session is deemed to be a separate regular session of 
        the State legislature.

SEC. 115. INFORMATION ON CHILDREN IN FOSTER CARE IN ANNUAL REPORTS 
              USING AFCARS DATA; CONSULTATION.

    Section 479A (42 U.S.C. 679b) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary'';
            (2) in paragraph (5), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (3) in paragraph (6)(C), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) include in the report submitted pursuant to paragraph 
        (5) for fiscal year 2016 or any succeeding fiscal year, State-
        by-State data on--
                    ``(A) children in foster care who have been placed 
                in a child care institution or other setting that is 
                not a foster family home, including--
                            ``(i) the number of children in the 
                        placements and their ages, including 
                        separately, the number and ages of children who 
                        have a permanency plan of another planned 
                        permanent living arrangement;
                            ``(ii) the duration of the placement in the 
                        settings (including for children who have a 
                        permanency plan of another planned permanent 
                        living arrangement);
                            ``(iii) the types of child care 
                        institutions used (including group homes, 
                        residential treatment, shelters, or other 
                        congregate care settings);
                            ``(iv) with respect to each child care 
                        institution or other setting that is not a 
                        foster family home, the number of children in 
                        foster care residing in each such institution 
                        or non-foster family home;
                            ``(v) any clinically diagnosed special need 
                        of such children; and
                            ``(vi) the extent of any specialized 
                        education, treatment, counseling, or other 
                        services provided in the settings; and
                    ``(B) children in foster care who are pregnant or 
                parenting.
    ``(b) Consultation on Other Issues.--The Secretary shall consult 
with States and organizations with an interest in child welfare, 
including organizations that provide adoption and foster care services, 
and shall take into account requests from Members of Congress, in 
selecting other issues to be analyzed and reported on under this 
section using data available to the Secretary, including data reported 
by States through the Adoption and Foster Care Analysis and Reporting 
System and to the National Youth in Transition Database.''.

                Subtitle C--National Advisory Committee

SEC. 121. ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIONAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON THE SEX 
              TRAFFICKING OF CHILDREN AND YOUTH IN THE UNITED STATES.

    Title XI (42 U.S.C. 1301 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
section 1114 the following:

 ``national advisory committee on the sex trafficking of chiildren and 
                       youth in the united states

    ``Sec. 1114A.  (a) Official Designation.--This section relates to 
the National Advisory Committee on the Sex Trafficking of Children and 
Youth in the United States (in this section referred to as the 
`Committee').
    ``(b) Authority.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish and appoint 
all members of the Committee.
    ``(c) Membership.--
            ``(1) Composition.--The Committee shall be composed of not 
        more than 21 members whose diverse experience and background 
        enable them to provide balanced points of view with regard to 
        carrying out the duties of the Committee.
            ``(2) Selection.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Attorney General and National Governors Association, shall 
        appoint the members to the Committee. At least 1 Committee 
        member shall be a former sex trafficking victim. 2 Committee 
        members shall be a Governor of a State, 1 of whom shall be a 
        member of the Democratic Party and 1 of whom shall be a member 
        of the Republican Party.
            ``(3) Period of appointment; vacancies.--Members shall be 
        appointed for the life of the Committee. A vacancy in the 
        Committee shall be filled in the manner in which the original 
        appointment was made and shall not affect the powers or duties 
        of the Committee.
            ``(4) Compensation.--Committee members shall serve without 
        compensation or per diem in lieu of subsistence.
    ``(d) Duties.--
            ``(1) National response.--The Committee shall advise the 
        Secretary and the Attorney General on practical and general 
        policies concerning improvements to the Nation's response to 
        the sex trafficking of children and youth in the United States.
            ``(2) Policies for cooperation.--The Committee shall advise 
        the Secretary and the Attorney General on practical and general 
        policies concerning the cooperation of Federal, State, local, 
        and tribal governments, child welfare agencies, social service 
        providers, physical health and mental health providers, victim 
        service providers, State or local courts with responsibility 
        for conducting or supervising proceedings relating to child 
        welfare or social services for children and their families, 
        Federal, State, and local police, juvenile detention centers, 
        and runaway and homeless youth programs, schools, the gaming 
        and entertainment industry, and businesses and organizations 
        that provide services to youth, on responding to sex 
        trafficking, including the development and implementation of--
                    ``(A) successful interventions with children and 
                youth who are exposed to conditions that make them 
                vulnerable to, or victims of, sex trafficking; and
                    ``(B) recommendations for administrative or 
                legislative changes necessary to use programs, 
                properties, or other resources owned, operated, or 
                funded by the Federal Government to provide safe 
                housing for children and youth who are sex trafficking 
                victims and provide support to entities that provide 
                housing or other assistance to the victims.
            ``(3) Best practices and recommendations for states.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Within 2 years after the 
                establishment of the Committee, the Committee shall 
                develop 2 tiers (referred to in this subparagraph as 
                `Tier I' and `Tier II') of recommended best practices 
                for States to follow in combating the sex trafficking 
                of children and youth. Tier I shall provide States that 
                have not yet substantively addressed the sex 
                trafficking of children and youth with an idea of where 
                to begin and what steps to take. Tier II shall provide 
                States that are already working to address the sex 
                trafficking of children and youth with examples of 
                policies that are already being used effectively by 
                other States to address sex trafficking.
                    ``(B) Development.--The best practices shall be 
                based on multidisciplinary research and promising, 
                evidence-based models and programs as reflected in 
                State efforts to meet the requirements of sections 101 
                and 102 of the Preventing Sex Trafficking and 
                Strengthening Families Act.
                    ``(C) Content.--The best practices shall be user-
                friendly, incorporate the most up-to-date technology, 
                and include the following:
                            ``(i) Sample training materials, protocols, 
                        and screening tools that, to the extent 
                        possible, accommodate for regional differences 
                        among the States, to prepare individuals who 
                        administer social services to identify and 
                        serve children and youth who are sex 
                        trafficking victims or at-risk of sex 
                        trafficking.
                            ``(ii) Multidisciplinary strategies to 
                        identify victims, manage cases, and improve 
                        services for all children and youth who are at 
                        risk of sex trafficking, or are sex trafficking 
                        victims, in the United States.
                            ``(iii) Sample protocols and 
                        recommendations based on current States' 
                        efforts, accounting for regional differences 
                        between States that provide for effective, 
                        cross-system collaboration between Federal, 
                        State, local, and tribal governments, child 
                        welfare agencies, social service providers, 
                        physical health and mental health providers, 
                        victim service providers, State or local courts 
                        with responsibility for conducting or 
                        supervising proceedings relating to child 
                        welfare or social services for children and 
                        their families, the gaming and entertainment 
                        industry, Federal, State, and local police, 
                        juvenile detention centers and runaway and 
                        homeless youth programs, housing resources that 
                        are appropriate for housing child and youth 
                        victims of trafficking, schools, and businesses 
                        and organizations that provide services to 
                        children and youth. These protocols and 
                        recommendations should include strategies to 
                        identify victims and collect, document, and 
                        share data across systems and agencies, and 
                        should be designed to help agencies better 
                        understand the type of sex trafficking 
                        involved, the scope of the problem, the needs 
                        of the population to be served, ways to address 
                        the demand for trafficked children and youth 
                        and increase prosecutions of traffickers and 
                        purchasers of children and youth, and the 
                        degree of victim interaction with multiple 
                        systems.
                            ``(iv) Developing the criteria and 
                        guidelines necessary for establishing safe 
                        residential placements for foster children who 
                        have been sex trafficked as well as victims of 
                        trafficking identified through interaction with 
                        law enforcement.
                            ``(v) Developing training guidelines for 
                        caregivers that serve children and youth being 
                        cared for outside the home.
                    ``(D) Informing states of best practices.--The 
                Committee, in coordination with the National Governors 
                Association, Secretary and Attorney General, shall 
                ensure that State Governors and child welfare agencies 
                are notified and informed on a quarterly basis of the 
                best practices and recommendations for States, and 
                notified 6 months in advance that the Committee will be 
                evaluating the extent to which States adopt the 
                Committee's recommendations.
                    ``(E) Report on state implementation.--Within 3 
                years after the establishment of the Committee, the 
                Committee shall submit to the Secretary and the 
                Attorney General, as part of its final report as well 
                as for online and publicly available publication, a 
                description of what each State has done to implement 
                the recommendations of the Committee.
    ``(e) Reports.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Committee shall submit an interim 
        and a final report on the work of the Committee to--
                    ``(A) the Secretary;
                    ``(B) the Attorney General;
                    ``(C) the Committee on Finance of the Senate; and
                    ``(D) the Committee on Ways and Means of the House 
                of Representatives.
            ``(2) Reporting dates.--The interim report shall be 
        submitted not later than 3 years after the establishment of the 
        Committee. The final report shall be submitted not later than 4 
        years after the establishment of the Committee.
    ``(f) Administration.--
            ``(1) Agency support.--The Secretary shall direct the head 
        of the Administration for Children and Families of the 
        Department of Health and Human Services to provide all 
        necessary support for the Committee.
            ``(2) Meetings.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Committee will meet at the 
                call of the Secretary at least twice each year to carry 
                out this section, and more often as otherwise required.
                    ``(B) Accommodation for committee members unable to 
                attend in person.--The Secretary shall create a process 
                through which Committee members who are unable to 
                travel to a Committee meeting in person may participate 
                remotely through the use of video conference, 
                teleconference, online, or other means.
            ``(3) Subcommittees.--The Committee may establish 
        subcommittees or working groups, as necessary and consistent 
        with the mission of the Committee. The subcommittees or working 
        groups shall have no authority to make decisions on behalf of 
        the Committee, nor shall they report directly to any official 
        or entity listed in subsection (d).
            ``(4) Recordkeeping.--The records of the Committee and any 
        subcommittees and working groups shall be maintained in 
        accordance with appropriate Department of Health and Human 
        Services policies and procedures and shall be available for 
        public inspection and copying, subject to the Freedom of 
        Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552).
    ``(g) Termination.--The Committee shall terminate 5 years after the 
date of its establishment, but the Secretary shall continue to operate 
and update, as necessary, an Internet website displaying the State best 
practices, recommendations, and evaluation of State-by-State 
implementation of the Secretary's recommendations.
    ``(h) Definition.--For the purpose of this section, the term `sex 
trafficking' includes the definition set forth in section 103(10) of 
the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102(10)) and 
`severe form of trafficking in persons' described in section 103(9)(A) 
of such Act.''.

TITLE II--IMPROVING ADOPTION INCENTIVES AND EXTENDING FAMILY CONNECTION 
                                 GRANTS

           Subtitle A--Improving Adoption Incentive Payments

SEC. 201. EXTENSION OF PROGRAM THROUGH FISCAL YEAR 2016.

    Section 473A (42 U.S.C. 673b) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(5), by striking ``2008 through 2012'' 
        and inserting ``2013 through 2015''; and
            (2) in each of paragraphs (1)(D) and (2) of subsection (h), 
        by striking ``2013'' and inserting ``2016''.

SEC. 202. IMPROVEMENTS TO AWARD STRUCTURE.

    (a) Eligibility for Award.--Section 473A(b) (42 U.S.C. 673b(b)) is 
amended by striking paragraph (2) and redesignating paragraphs (3) 
through (5) as paragraphs (2) through (4), respectively.
    (b) Data Requirements.--Section 473A(c)(2) (42 U.S.C. 673b(c)(2)) 
is amended--
            (1) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``numbers of 
        adoptions'' and inserting ``rates of adoptions and 
        guardianships'';
            (2) by striking ``the numbers'' and all that follows 
        through ``section,'' and inserting ``each of the rates required 
        to be determined under this section with respect to a State and 
        a fiscal year,''; and
            (3) by inserting before the period the following: ``, and, 
        with respect to the determination of the rates related to 
        foster child guardianships, on the basis of information 
        reported to the Secretary under paragraph (12) of subsection 
        (g)''.
    (c) Award Amount.--Section 473A(d) (42 U.S.C. 673b(d)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking subparagraphs (A) through 
        (C) and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) $5,000, multiplied by the amount (if any) by 
                which--
                            ``(i) the number of foster child adoptions 
                        in the State during the fiscal year; exceeds
                            ``(ii) the product (rounded to the nearest 
                        whole number) of--
                                    ``(I) the base rate of foster child 
                                adoptions for the State for the fiscal 
                                year; and
                                    ``(II) the number of children in 
                                foster care under the supervision of 
                                the State on the last day of the 
                                preceding fiscal year;
                    ``(B) $7,500, multiplied by the amount (if any) by 
                which--
                            ``(i) the number of pre-adolescent child 
                        adoptions and pre-adolescent foster child 
                        guardianships in the State during the fiscal 
                        year; exceeds
                            ``(ii) the product (rounded to the nearest 
                        whole number) of--
                                    ``(I) the base rate of pre-
                                adolescent child adoptions and pre-
                                adolescent foster child guardianships 
                                for the State for the fiscal year; and
                                    ``(II) the number of children in 
                                foster care under the supervision of 
                                the State on the last day of the 
                                preceding fiscal year who have attained 
                                9 years of age but not 14 years of age; 
                                and
                    ``(C) $10,000, multiplied by the amount (if any) by 
                which--
                            ``(i) the number of older child adoptions 
                        and older foster child guardianships in the 
                        State during the fiscal year; exceeds
                            ``(ii) the product (rounded to the nearest 
                        whole number) of--
                                    ``(I) the base rate of older child 
                                adoptions and older foster child 
                                guardianships for the State for the 
                                fiscal year; and
                                    ``(II) the number of children in 
                                foster care under the supervision of 
                                the State on the last day of the 
                                preceding fiscal year who have attained 
                                14 years of age; and
                    ``(D) $4,000, multiplied by the amount (if any) by 
                which--
                            ``(i) the number of foster child 
                        guardianships in the State during the fiscal 
                        year; exceeds
                            ``(ii) the product (rounded to the nearest 
                        whole number) of--
                                    ``(I) the base rate of foster child 
                                guardianships for the State for the 
                                fiscal year; and
                                    ``(II) the number of children in 
                                foster care under the supervision of 
                                the State on the last day of the 
                                preceding fiscal year.''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
            ``(3) Increased adoption and legal guardianship incentive 
        payment for timely adoptions.--
                    ``(A) In general.--If for any of fiscal years 2013 
                through 2015, the total amount of adoption and legal 
                guardianship incentive payments payable under paragraph 
                (1) of this subsection are less than the amount 
                appropriated under subsection (h) for the fiscal year, 
                then, from the remainder of the amount appropriated for 
                the fiscal year that is not required for such payments 
                (in this paragraph referred to as the `timely adoption 
                award pool'), the Secretary shall increase the adoption 
                incentive payment determined under paragraph (1) for 
                each State that the Secretary determines is a timely 
                adoption award State for the fiscal year by the award 
                amount determined for the fiscal year under 
                subparagraph (C).
                    ``(B) Timely adoption award state defined.--A State 
                is a timely adoption award State for a fiscal year if 
                the Secretary determines that, for children who were in 
                foster care under the supervision of the State at the 
                time of adoptive placement, the average number of 
                months from removal of children from their home to the 
                placement of children in finalized adoptions is less 
                than 24 months.
                    ``(C) Award amount.--For purposes of subparagraph 
                (A), the award amount determined under this 
                subparagraph with respect to a fiscal year is the 
                amount equal to the timely adoption award pool for the 
                fiscal year divided by the number of timely adoption 
                award States for the fiscal year.''.
    (d) Definitions.--Section 473A(g) (42 U.S.C. 673b(g)) is amended by 
striking paragraphs (1) through (8) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) Foster child adoption rate.--The term `foster child 
        adoption rate' means, with respect to a State and a fiscal 
        year, the percentage determined by dividing--
                    ``(A) the number of foster child adoptions 
                finalized in the State during the fiscal year; by
                    ``(B) the number of children in foster care under 
                the supervision of the State on the last day of the 
                preceding fiscal year.
            ``(2) Base rate of foster child adoptions.--The term `base 
        rate of foster child adoptions' means, with respect to a State 
        and a fiscal year, the lesser of--
                    ``(A) the foster child adoption rate for the State 
                for the then immediately preceding fiscal year; or
                    ``(B) the foster child adoption rate for the State 
                for the average of the then immediately preceding 3 
                fiscal years.
            ``(3) Foster child adoption.--The term `foster child 
        adoption' means the final adoption of a child who, at the time 
        of adoptive placement, was in foster care under the supervision 
        of the State.
            ``(4) Pre-adolescent child adoption and pre-adolescent 
        foster child guardianship rate.--The term `pre-adolescent child 
        adoption and pre-adolescent foster child guardianship rate' 
        means, with respect to a State and a fiscal year, the 
        percentage determined by dividing--
                    ``(A) the number of pre-adolescent child adoptions 
                and pre-adolescent foster child guardianships finalized 
                in the State during the fiscal year; by
                    ``(B) the number of children in foster care under 
                the supervision of the State on the last day of the 
                preceding fiscal year, who have attained 9 years of age 
                but not 14 years of age.
            ``(5) Base rate of pre-adolescent child adoptions and pre-
        adolescent foster child guardianships.--The term `base rate of 
        pre-adolescent child adoptions and pre-adolescent foster child 
        guardianships' means, with respect to a State and a fiscal 
        year, the lesser of--
                    ``(A) the pre-adolescent child adoption and pre-
                adolescent foster child guardianship rate for the State 
                for the then immediately preceding fiscal year; or
                    ``(B) the pre-adolescent child adoption and pre-
                adolescent foster child guardianship rate for the State 
                for the average of the then immediately preceding 3 
                fiscal years.
            ``(6) Pre-adolescent child adoption and pre-adolescent 
        foster child guardianship.--The term `pre-adolescent child 
        adoption and pre-adolescent foster child guardianship' means 
        the final adoption, or the placement into foster child 
        guardianship (as defined in paragraph (12)) of a child who has 
        attained 9 years of age but not 14 years of age if--
                    ``(A) at the time of the adoptive or foster child 
                guardianship placement, the child was in foster care 
                under the supervision of the State; or
                    ``(B) an adoption assistance agreement was in 
                effect under section 473(a) with respect to the child.
            ``(7) Older child adoption and older foster child 
        guardianship rate.--The term `older child adoption and older 
        foster child guardianship rate' means, with respect to a State 
        and a fiscal year, the percentage determined by dividing--
                    ``(A) the number of older child adoptions and older 
                foster child guardianships finalized in the State 
                during the fiscal year; by
                    ``(B) the number of children in foster care under 
                the supervision of the State on the last day of the 
                preceding fiscal year, who have attained 14 years of 
                age.
            ``(8) Base rate of older child adoptions and older foster 
        child guardianships.--The term `base rate of older child 
        adoptions and older foster child guardianships' means, with 
        respect to a State and a fiscal year, the lesser of--
                    ``(A) the older child adoption and older foster 
                child guardianship rate for the State for the then 
                immediately preceding fiscal year; or
                    ``(B) the older child adoption and older foster 
                child guardianship rate for the State for the average 
                of the then immediately preceding 3 fiscal years.
            ``(9) Older child adoption and older foster child 
        guardianship.--The term `older child adoption and older foster 
        child guardianship' means the final adoption, or the placement 
        into foster child guardianship (as defined in paragraph (12)) 
        of a child who has attained 14 years of age if--
                    ``(A) at the time of the adoptive or foster child 
                guardianship placement, the child was in foster care 
                under the supervision of the State; or
                    ``(B) an adoption assistance agreement was in 
                effect under section 473(a) with respect to the child.
            ``(10) Foster child guardianship rate.--The term `foster 
        child guardianship rate' means, with respect to a State and a 
        fiscal year, the percentage determined by dividing--
                    ``(A) the number of foster child guardianships 
                occurring in the State during the fiscal year; by
                    ``(B) the number of children in foster care under 
                the supervision of the State on the last day of the 
                preceding fiscal year.
            ``(11) Base rate of foster child guardianships.--The term 
        `base rate of foster child guardianships' means, with respect 
        to a State and a fiscal year, the lesser of--
                    ``(A) the foster child guardianship rate for the 
                State for the then immediately preceding fiscal year; 
                or
                    ``(B) the foster child guardianship rate for the 
                State for the average of the then immediately preceding 
                3 fiscal years.
            ``(12) Foster child guardianship.--The term `foster child 
        guardianship' means, with respect to a State, the exit of a 
        child from foster care under the responsibility of the State to 
        live with a legal guardian, if the State has reported to the 
        Secretary--
                    ``(A) that the State agency has determined that--
                            ``(i) the child has been removed from his 
                        or her home pursuant to a voluntary placement 
                        agreement or as a result of a judicial 
                        determination to the effect that continuation 
                        in the home would be contrary to the welfare of 
                        the child;
                            ``(ii) being returned home or adopted are 
                        not appropriate permanency options for the 
                        child;
                            ``(iii) the child demonstrates a strong 
                        attachment to the prospective legal guardian, 
                        and the prospective legal guardian has a strong 
                        commitment to caring permanently for the child; 
                        and
                            ``(iv) if the child has attained 14 years 
                        of age, the child has been consulted regarding 
                        the legal guardianship arrangement; or
                    ``(B) the alternative procedures used by the State 
                to determine that legal guardianship is the appropriate 
                option for the child.''.

SEC. 203. RENAMING OF PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The section heading of section 473A (42 U.S.C. 
673b) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 473A. ADOPTION AND LEGAL GUARDIANSHIP INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.''.

    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Section 473A is amended in each of subsections (a), 
        (d)(1), (d)(2)(A), and (d)(2)(B) (42 U.S.C. 673b(a), (d)(1), 
        (d)(2)(A), and (d)(2)(B)) by inserting ``and legal 
        guardianship'' after ``adoption'' each place it appears.
            (2) The heading of section 473A(d) (42 U.S.C. 673b(d)) is 
        amended by inserting ``and Legal Guardianship'' after 
        ``Adoption''.

SEC. 204. LIMITATION ON USE OF INCENTIVE PAYMENTS.

    Section 473A(f) (42 U.S.C. 673b(f)) is amended in the 1st sentence 
by inserting ``, and shall use the amount to supplement, and not 
supplant, any Federal or non-Federal funds used to provide any service 
under part B or E'' before the period.

SEC. 205. INCREASE IN PERIOD FOR WHICH INCENTIVE PAYMENTS ARE AVAILABLE 
              FOR EXPENDITURE.

    Section 473A(e) (42 U.S.C. 673b(e)) is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``24-month'' and 
        inserting ``36-month''; and
            (2) by striking ``24-month'' and inserting ``36-month''.

SEC. 206. STATE REPORT ON CALCULATION AND USE OF SAVINGS RESULTING FROM 
              THE PHASE-OUT OF ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR ADOPTION 
              ASSISTANCE; REQUIREMENT TO SPEND 30 PERCENT OF SAVINGS ON 
              CERTAIN SERVICES.

    Section 473(a)(8) (42 U.S.C. 673(a)(8)) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(8)(A) A State shall calculate the savings (if any) resulting 
from the application of paragraph (2)(A)(ii) to all applicable children 
for a fiscal year, using a methodology specified by the Secretary or an 
alternate methodology proposed by the State and approved by the 
Secretary.
    ``(B) A State shall annually report to the Secretary--
            ``(i) the methodology used to make the calculation 
        described in subparagraph (A), without regard to whether any 
        savings are found;
            ``(ii) the amount of any savings referred to in 
        subparagraph (A); and
            ``(iii) how any such savings are spent, accounting for and 
        reporting the spending separately from any other spending 
        reported to the Secretary under part B or this part.
    ``(C) The Secretary shall make all information reported pursuant to 
subparagraph (B) available on the website of the Department of Health 
and Human Services in a location easily accessible to the public.
    ``(D)(i) A State shall spend an amount equal to the amount of the 
savings (if any) in State expenditures under this part resulting from 
the application of paragraph (2)(A)(ii) to all applicable children for 
a fiscal year, to provide to children of families any service that may 
be provided under part B or this part. A State shall spend not less 
than 30 percent of any such savings on post-adoption services, post-
guardianship services, and services to support and sustain positive 
permanent outcomes for children who otherwise might enter into foster 
care under the responsibility of the State, with at least \2/3\ of the 
spending by the State to comply with such 30 percent requirement being 
spent on post-adoption and post-guardianship services.
    ``(ii) Any State spending required under clause (i) shall be used 
to supplement, and not supplant, any Federal or non-Federal funds used 
to provide any service under part B or this part.''.

SEC. 207. PRESERVATION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR KINSHIP GUARDIANSHIP 
              ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS WITH A SUCCESSOR GUARDIAN.

    Section 473(d)(3) (42 U.S.C. 673(d)(3)) is amended by adding at the 
end the following:
                    ``(C) Eligibility not affected by replacement of 
                guardian with a successor guardian.--In the event of 
                the death or incapacity of the relative guardian, the 
                eligibility of a child for a kinship guardianship 
                assistance payment under this subsection shall not be 
                affected by reason of the replacement of the relative 
                guardian with a successor legal guardian named in the 
                kinship guardianship assistance agreement referred to 
                in paragraph (1) (including in any amendment to the 
                agreement), notwithstanding subparagraph (A) of this 
                paragraph and section 471(a)(28).''.

SEC. 208. DATA COLLECTION ON ADOPTION AND LEGAL GUARDIANSHIP DISRUPTION 
              AND DISSOLUTION.

    Section 479 (42 U.S.C. 679) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(d) To promote improved knowledge on how best to ensure strong, 
permanent families for children, the Secretary shall promulgate 
regulations providing for the collection and analysis of information 
regarding children who enter into foster care under the supervision of 
a State after prior finalization of an adoption or legal guardianship. 
The regulations shall require each State with a State plan approved 
under this part to collect and report as part of such data collection 
system the number of children who enter foster care under supervision 
of the State after finalization of an adoption or legal guardianship 
and may include information concerning the length of the prior adoption 
or guardianship, the age of the child at the time of the prior adoption 
or guardianship, the age at which the child subsequently entered foster 
care under supervision of the State, the type of agency involved in 
making the prior adoptive or guardianship placement, and any other 
factors determined necessary to better understand factors associated 
with the child's post-adoption or post-guardianship entry to foster 
care.''.

SEC. 209. ENCOURAGING THE PLACEMENT OF CHILDREN IN FOSTER CARE WITH 
              SIBLINGS.

    (a) State Plan Amendment.--
            (1) Notification of parents of siblings.--Section 
        471(a)(29) (42 U.S.C. 671(a)(29)) is amended by striking ``all 
        adult grandparents'' and inserting ``the following relatives: 
        all adult grandparents, all parents of a sibling of the child, 
        where such parent has legal custody of such sibling,''.
            (2) Sibling defined.--Section 475 (42 U.S.C. 675), as 
        amended by sections 101(b) and 111(a)(1) of this Act, is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(12) The term `sibling' means an individual who satisfies 
        at least one of the following conditions with respect to a 
        child:
                    ``(A) The individual is considered by State law to 
                be a sibling of the child.
                    ``(B) The individual would have been considered a 
                sibling of the child under State law but for a 
                termination or other disruption of parental rights, 
                such as the death of a parent.''.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed as subordinating the rights of foster or adoptive parents of 
a child to the rights of the parents of a sibling of that child.

SEC. 210. EFFECTIVE DATES.

    (a) In General.--Except as otherwise provided in this section, the 
amendments made by this subtitle shall take effect as if enacted on 
October 1, 2013.
    (b) Restructuring and Renaming of Program.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by sections 202 and 
        203 shall take effect on October 1, 2014, subject to paragraph 
        (2).
            (2) Transition rule.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding any other 
                provision of law, the total amount payable to a State 
                under section 473A of the Social Security Act for 
                fiscal year 2014 shall be an amount equal to \1/2\ of 
                the sum of--
                            (i) the total amount that would be payable 
                        to the State under such section for fiscal year 
                        2014 if the amendments made by section 202 of 
                        this Act had not taken effect; and
                            (ii) the total amount that would be payable 
                        to the State under such section for fiscal year 
                        2014 in the absence of this paragraph.
                    (B) Pro rata adjustment if insufficient funds 
                available.--If the total amount otherwise payable under 
                subparagraph (A) for fiscal year 2014 exceeds the 
                amount appropriated pursuant to section 473A(h) of the 
                Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 673b(h)) for that fiscal 
                year, the amount payable to each State under 
                subparagraph (A) for fiscal year 2014 shall be--
                            (i) the amount that would otherwise be 
                        payable to the State under subparagraph (A) for 
                        fiscal year 2014; multiplied by
                            (ii) the percentage represented by the 
                        amount so appropriated for fiscal year 2014, 
                        divided by the total amount otherwise payable 
                        under subparagraph (A) to all States for that 
                        fiscal year.
    (c) Use of Incentive Payments; Eligibility for Kinship Guardianship 
Assistance Payments With a Successor Guardian; Data Collection.--The 
amendments made by sections 204, 207, and 208 shall take effect on the 
date of enactment of this Act.
    (d) Calculation and Use of Savings Resulting From the Phase-Out of 
Eligibility Requirements for Adoption Assistance.--The amendment made 
by section 206 shall take effect on October 1, 2014.
    (e) Notification of Parents of Siblings.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by section 209 shall 
        take effect on the date of enactment of this Act, subject to 
        paragraph (2).
            (2) Delay permitted if state legislation required.--In the 
        case of a State plan approved under part E of title IV of the 
        Social Security Act which the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services determines requires State legislation (other than 
        legislation appropriating funds) in order for the plan to meet 
        the additional requirements imposed by section 209, the State 
        plan shall not be regarded as failing to comply with the 
        requirements of such part solely on the basis of the failure of 
        the plan to meet such additional requirements before the 1st 
        day of the 1st calendar quarter beginning after the close of 
        the 1st regular session of the State legislature that ends 
        after the 1-year period beginning with the date of enactment of 
        this Act. For purposes of the preceding sentence, in the case 
        of a State that has a 2-year legislative session, each year of 
        the session is deemed to be a separate regular session of the 
        State legislature.

       Subtitle B--Extending the Family Connection Grant Program

SEC. 221. EXTENSION OF FAMILY CONNECTION GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 427(h) (42 U.S.C. 627(h)) is amended by 
striking ``2013'' and inserting ``2014''.
    (b) Eligibility of Universities for Matching Grants.--Section 
427(a) (42 U.S.C. 627(a)) is amended, in the matter preceding paragraph 
(1)--
            (1) by striking ``and'' before ``private''; and
            (2) by inserting ``and institutions of higher education (as 
        defined under section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
        (20 U.S.C. 1001)),'' after ``arrangements,''.
    (c) Finding Families for Foster Children Who Are Parents.--Section 
427(a)(1)(E) (42 U.S.C. 627(a)(1)(E)) is amended by inserting ``and 
other individuals who are willing and able to be foster parents for 
children in foster care under the responsibility of the State who are 
themselves parents'' after ``kinship care families''.
    (d) Reservation of Funds.--Section 427(g) (42 U.S.C. 627(g)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1); and
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (1) and (2), respectively.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if enacted on October 1, 2013.

       TITLE III--IMPROVING INTERNATIONAL CHILD SUPPORT RECOVERY

SEC. 301. AMENDMENTS TO ENSURE ACCESS TO CHILD SUPPORT SERVICES FOR 
              INTERNATIONAL CHILD SUPPORT CASES.

    (a) Authority of the Secretary of HHS To Ensure Compliance With 
Multilateral Child Support Conventions.--
            (1) In general.--Section 452 (42 U.S.C. 652) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating the second subsection (l) (as 
                added by section 7306 of the Deficit Reduction Act of 
                2005) as subsection (m); and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(n) The Secretary shall use the authorities otherwise provided by 
law to ensure the compliance of the United States with any multilateral 
child support convention to which the United States is a party.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 453(k)(3) (42 U.S.C. 
        653(k)(3)) is amended by striking ``452(l)'' and inserting 
        ``452(m)''.
    (b) Access to the Federal Parent Locator Service.--Section 453(c) 
(42 U.S.C. 653(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (3);
            (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (4) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) an entity designated as a Central Authority for child 
        support enforcement in a foreign reciprocating country or a 
        foreign treaty country for purposes specified in section 
        459A(c)(2).''.
    (c) State Option To Require Individuals in Foreign Countries To 
Apply Through Their Country's Appropriate Central Authority.--Section 
454 (42 U.S.C. 654) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4)(A)(ii), by inserting before the 
        semicolon ``(except that, if the individual applying for the 
        services resides in a foreign reciprocating country or foreign 
        treaty country, the State may opt to require the individual to 
        request the services through the Central Authority for child 
        support enforcement in the foreign reciprocating country or the 
        foreign treaty country, and if the individual resides in a 
        foreign country that is not a foreign reciprocating country or 
        a foreign treaty country, a State may accept or reject the 
        application)''; and
            (2) in paragraph (32)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``, a foreign 
                treaty country,'' after ``a foreign reciprocating 
                country''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``or foreign 
                obligee'' and inserting ``, foreign treaty country, or 
                foreign individual''.
    (d) Amendments to International Support Enforcement Provisions.--
Section 459A (42 U.S.C. 659a) is amended--
            (1) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) References.--In this part:
            ``(1) Foreign reciprocating country.--The term `foreign 
        reciprocating country' means a foreign country (or political 
        subdivision thereof) with respect to which the Secretary has 
        made a declaration pursuant to subsection (a).
            ``(2) Foreign treaty country.--The term `foreign treaty 
        country' means a foreign country for which the 2007 Family 
        Maintenance Convention is in force.
            ``(3) 2007 family maintenance convention.--The term `2007 
        Family Maintenance Convention' means the Hague Convention of 23 
        November 2007 on the International Recovery of Child Support 
        and Other Forms of Family Maintenance.'';
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``foreign countries that are the subject of a 
                declaration under this section'' and inserting 
                ``foreign reciprocating countries or foreign treaty 
                countries''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``and foreign 
                treaty countries'' after ``foreign reciprocating 
                countries''; and
            (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``the subject of a 
        declaration pursuant to subsection (a)'' and inserting 
        ``foreign reciprocating countries or foreign treaty 
        countries''.
    (e) Collection of Past-Due Support From Federal Tax Refunds.--
Section 464(a)(2)(A) (42 U.S.C. 664(a)(2)(A)) is amended by striking 
``under section 454(4)(A)(ii)'' and inserting ``under paragraph 
(4)(A)(ii) or (32) of section 454''.
    (f) State Law Requirement Concerning the Uniform Interstate Family 
Support Act (UIFSA).--
            (1) In general.--Section 466(f) (42 U.S.C. 666(f)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``on and after January 1, 1998,'';
                    (B) by striking ``and as in effect on August 22, 
                1996,''; and
                    (C) by striking ``adopted as of such date'' and 
                inserting ``adopted as of September 30, 2008''.
            (2) Conforming amendments to title 28, united states 
        code.--Section 1738B of title 28, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subsection (d), by striking ``individual 
                contestant'' and inserting ``individual contestant or 
                the parties have consented in a record or open court 
                that the tribunal of the State may continue to exercise 
                jurisdiction to modify its order,'';
                    (B) in subsection (e)(2)(A), by striking 
                ``individual contestant'' and inserting ``individual 
                contestant and the parties have not consented in a 
                record or open court that the tribunal of the other 
                State may continue to exercise jurisdiction to modify 
                its order''; and
                    (C) in subsection (b)--
                            (i) by striking ```child' means'' and 
                        inserting ``(1) The term `child' means'';
                            (ii) by striking ```child's State' means'' 
                        and inserting ``(2) The term `child's State' 
                        means'';
                            (iii) by striking ```child's home State' 
                        means'' and inserting ``(3) The term `child's 
                        home State' means'';
                            (iv) by striking ```child support' means'' 
                        and inserting ``(4) The term `child support' 
                        means'';
                            (v) by striking ```child support order''' 
                        and inserting ``(5) The term `child support 
                        order''';
                            (vi) by striking ```contestant' means'' and 
                        inserting ``(6) The term `contestant' means'';
                            (vii) by striking ```court' means'' and 
                        inserting ``(7) The term `court' means'';
                            (viii) by striking ```modification' means'' 
                        and inserting ``(8) The term `modification' 
                        means''; and
                            (ix) by striking ```State' means'' and 
                        inserting ``(9) The term `State' means''.
            (3) Effective date; grace period for state law changes.--
                    (A) Paragraph (1).--(i) The amendments made by 
                paragraph (1) shall take effect with respect to a State 
                no later than the effective date of laws enacted by the 
                legislature of the State implementing such paragraph, 
                but in no event later than the first day of the first 
                calendar quarter beginning after the close of the first 
                regular session of the State legislature that begins 
                after the date of the enactment of this Act.
                    (ii) For purposes of clause (i), in the case of a 
                State that has a 2-year legislative session, each year 
                of the session shall be deemed to be a separate regular 
                session of the State legislature.
                    (B) Paragraph (2).--(i) The amendments made by 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (2) shall take 
                effect on the date on which the Hague Convention of 23 
                November 2007 on the International Recovery of Child 
                Support and Other Forms of Family Maintenance enters 
                into force for the United States.
                    (ii) The amendments made by subparagraph (C) of 
                paragraph (2) shall take effect on the date of the 
                enactment of this Act.

SEC. 302. CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT PROGRAMS FOR INDIAN TRIBES.

    (a) Tribal Access to the Federal Parent Locator Service.--Section 
453(c)(1) (42 U.S.C. 653(c)(1)) is amended by inserting ``or Indian 
tribe or tribal organization (as defined in subsections (e) and (l) of 
section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
(25 U.S.C. 450b)),'' after ``any State''.
    (b) Waiver Authority for Indian Tribes or Tribal Organizations 
Operating Child Support Enforcement Programs.--Section 1115(b) (42 
U.S.C. 1315(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (3) as 
        subparagraphs (A) through (C), respectively, and realigning the 
        left margin of subparagraph (C) so as to align with 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) (as so redesignated);
            (2) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(b)''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2) An Indian tribe or tribal organization operating a program 
under section 455(f) shall be considered a State for purposes of 
authority to conduct an experimental, pilot, or demonstration project 
under subsection (a) to assist in promoting the objectives of part D of 
title IV and receiving payments under the second sentence of that 
subsection. The Secretary may waive compliance with any requirements of 
section 455(f) or regulations promulgated under that section to the 
extent and for the period the Secretary finds necessary for an Indian 
tribe or tribal organization to carry out such project. Costs of the 
project which would not otherwise be included as expenditures of a 
program operating under section 455(f) and which are not included as 
part of the costs of projects under section 1110, shall, to the extent 
and for the period prescribed by the Secretary, be regarded as 
expenditures under a tribal plan or plans approved under such section, 
or for the administration of such tribal plan or plans, as may be 
appropriate. An Indian tribe or tribal organization applying for or 
receiving start-up program development funding pursuant to section 
309.16 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, shall not be 
considered to be an Indian tribe or tribal organization operating a 
program under section 455(f) for purposes of this paragraph.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Section 453(f) (42 U.S.C. 653(f)) is 
amended by inserting ``and tribal'' after ``State'' each place it 
appears.

SEC. 303. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS REGARDING OFFERING OF VOLUNTARY 
              PARENTING TIME ARRANGEMENTS.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds as follows:
            (1) The separation of a child from a parent does not end 
        the financial or other responsibilities of the parent toward 
        the child.
            (2) Increased parental access and visitation not only 
        improve parent-child relationships and outcomes for children, 
        but also have been demonstrated to result in improved child 
        support collections, which creates a double win for children--a 
        more engaged parent and improved financial security.
    (b) Sense of the Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that--
            (1) establishing parenting time arrangements when obtaining 
        child support orders is an important goal which should be 
        accompanied by strong family violence safeguards; and
            (2) States should use existing funding sources to support 
        the establishment of parenting time arrangements, including 
        child support incentives, Access and Visitation Grants, and 
        Healthy Marriage Promotion and Responsible Fatherhood Grants.

SEC. 304. DATA EXCHANGE STANDARDIZATION FOR IMPROVED INTEROPERABILITY.

    (a) In General.--Section 452 (42 U.S.C. 652), as amended by section 
301(a)(1) of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(o) Data Exchange Standards for Improved Interoperability.--
            ``(1) Designation.--The Secretary shall, in consultation 
        with an interagency work group established by the Office of 
        Management and Budget and considering State government 
        perspectives, by rule, designate data exchange standards to 
        govern, under this part--
                    ``(A) necessary categories of information that 
                State agencies operating programs under State plans 
                approved under this part are required under applicable 
                Federal law to electronically exchange with another 
                State agency; and
                    ``(B) Federal reporting and data exchange required 
                under applicable Federal law.
            ``(2) Requirements.--The data exchange standards required 
        by paragraph (1) shall, to the extent practicable--
                    ``(A) incorporate a widely accepted, non-
                proprietary, searchable, computer-readable format, such 
                as the eXtensible Markup Language;
                    ``(B) contain interoperable standards developed and 
                maintained by intergovernmental partnerships, such as 
                the National Information Exchange Model;
                    ``(C) incorporate interoperable standards developed 
                and maintained by Federal entities with authority over 
                contracting and financial assistance;
                    ``(D) be consistent with and implement applicable 
                accounting principles;
                    ``(E) be implemented in a manner that is cost-
                effective and improves program efficiency and 
                effectiveness; and
                    ``(F) be capable of being continually upgraded as 
                necessary.
            ``(3) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection 
        shall be construed to require a change to existing data 
        exchange standards found to be effective and efficient.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services 
shall issue a proposed rule within 24 months after the date of the 
enactment of this section. The rule shall identify federally required 
data exchanges, include specification and timing of exchanges to be 
standardized, and address the factors used in determining whether and 
when to standardize data exchanges. It should also specify State 
implementation options and describe future milestones.

SEC. 305. REPORT TO CONGRESS.

    The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall--
            (1) in conjunction with the strategic plan, review and 
        provide recommendations for cost-effective improvements to the 
        child support enforcement program under part D of title IV of 
        the Social Security Act, and ensure that the plan addresses the 
        effectiveness and performance of the program, analyzes program 
        practices, identifies possible new collection tools and 
        approaches, and identifies strategies for holding parents 
        accountable for supporting their children and for building the 
        capacity of parents to pay child support, with specific 
        attention given to matters including front-end services, on-
        going case management, collections, Tribal-State partnerships, 
        interstate and intergovernmental interactions, program 
        performance, data analytics, and information technology;
            (2) in carrying out paragraph (1), consult with and include 
        input from--
                    (A) State, tribal, and county child support 
                directors;
                    (B) judges who preside over family courts or other 
                State or local courts with responsibility for 
                conducting or supervising proceedings relating to child 
                support enforcement, child welfare, or social services 
                for children and their families, and organizations that 
                represent the judges;
                    (C) custodial parents and organizations that 
                represent them;
                    (D) noncustodial parents and organizations that 
                represent them; and
                    (E) organizations that represent fiduciary entities 
                that are affected by child support enforcement 
                policies; and
            (3) in developing the report required by paragraph (4), 
        solicit public comment;
            (4) not later than June 30, 2015, submit to the Congress a 
        report that sets forth policy options for improvements in child 
        support enforcement, which report shall include the following:
                    (A) A review of the effectiveness of State child 
                support enforcement programs, and the collection 
                practices employed by State agencies administering 
                programs under such part, and an analysis of the extent 
                to which the practices result in unintended 
                consequences or performance issues associated with the 
                programs and practices.
                    (B) Recommendations for methods to enhance the 
                effectiveness of child support enforcement programs and 
                collection practices.
                    (C) A review of State best practices in regards to 
                establishing and operating State and multistate lien 
                registries.
                    (D) A compilation of State recovery and 
                distribution policies.
                    (E) Options, with analysis, for methods to engage 
                noncustodial parents in the lives of their children 
                through consideration of parental time and visitation 
                with children.
                    (F) An analysis of the role of alternative dispute 
                resolution in making child support determinations.
                    (G) Identification of best practices for--
                            (i) determining which services and support 
                        programs available to custodial and 
                        noncustodial parents are non-duplicative, 
                        evidence-based, and produce quality outcomes, 
                        and connecting custodial and noncustodial 
                        parents to those services and support programs;
                            (ii) providing employment support, job 
                        training, and job placement for custodial and 
                        noncustodial parents; and
                            (iii) establishing services, supports, and 
                        child support payment tracking for noncustodial 
                        parents, including options for the prevention 
                        of, and intervention on, uncollectible 
                        arrearages, such as retroactive obligations.
                    (H) Options, with analysis, for methods for States 
                to use to collect child support payments from 
                individuals who owe excessive arrearages as determined 
                under section 454(31) of such Act.
                    (I) A review of State practices under 454(31) of 
                such Act used to determine which individuals are 
                excluded from the requirements of section 452(k) of 
                such Act, including the extent to which individuals are 
                able to successfully contest or appeal decisions.
                    (J) Options, with analysis, for actions as are 
                determined to be appropriate for improvement in child 
                support enforcement.

SEC. 306. REQUIRED ELECTRONIC PROCESSING OF INCOME WITHHOLDING.

    (a) In General.--Section 454A(g)(1) (42 U.S.C. 654a(g)(1)(A)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``, to the maximum extent feasible,''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (i);
                    (B) by adding ``and'' at the end of clause (ii); 
                and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(iii) at the option of the employer, 
                        using the electronic transmission methods 
                        prescribed by the Secretary;''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2015.

                      TITLE IV--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

SEC. 401. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 23, 2014.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
113th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 4980

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

 To prevent and address sex trafficking of children in foster care, to 
 extend and improve adoption incentives, and to improve international 
                        child support recovery.
