
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 669 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.669

                     One Hundred Thirteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and fourteen


                                 An Act


 
To improve the health of children and help better understand and enhance 
         awareness about unexpected sudden death in early life.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Sudden Unexpected Death Data 
Enhancement and Awareness Act''.
SEC. 2. CONTINUING ACTIVITIES RELATED TO STILLBIRTH, SUDDEN UNEXPECTED 
INFANT DEATH AND SUDDEN UNEXPLAINED DEATH IN CHILDHOOD.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
continue activities related to still birth, sudden unexpected infant 
death, and sudden unexplained death in childhood, including, as 
appropriate--
        (1) collecting information, such as socio-demographic, death 
    scene investigation, clinical history, and autopsy information, on 
    stillbirth, sudden unexpected infant death, and sudden unexplained 
    death in childhood through the utilization of existing surveillance 
    systems and collaborating with States to improve the quality, 
    consistency, and collection of such data;
        (2) disseminating information to educate the public, health 
    care providers, and other stakeholders on stillbirth, sudden 
    unexpected infant death and sudden unexplained death in childhood; 
    and
        (3) collaborating with the Attorney General, State and local 
    departments of health, and other experts, as appropriate, to 
    provide consistent information for medical examiners and coroners, 
    law enforcement personnel, and health care providers related to 
    death scene investigations and autopsies for sudden unexpected 
    infant death and sudden unexplained death in childhood, in order to 
    improve the quality and consistency of the data collected at such 
    death scenes and to promote consistent reporting on the cause of 
    death after autopsy to inform prevention, intervention, and other 
    activities.
    (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
submit to Congress a report that includes a description of any 
activities that are being carried out by agencies within the Department 
of Health and Human Services, including the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention and the National Institutes of Health, related to 
stillbirth, sudden unexpected infant death, and sudden unexplained 
death in childhood, including those activities identified under 
subsection (a).
SEC. 3. NO ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS.
    This Act shall not be construed to increase the amount of 
appropriations that are authorized to be appropriated for any fiscal 
year.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
