
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 776 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 776

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     December 11, 2014.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take 
from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 83) to require the Secretary of the 
Interior to assemble a team of technical, policy, and financial experts to 
address the energy needs of the insular areas of the United States and the 
Freely Associated States through the development of energy action plans aimed at 
promoting access to affordable, reliable energy, including increasing use of 
indigenous clean-energy resources, and for other purposes, with the Senate 
amendment thereto, and to consider in the House, without intervention of any 
point of order, a motion offered by the chair of the Committee on Appropriations 
or his designee that the House concur in the Senate amendment with an amendment 
consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 113-59 modified by the amendment 
printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. 
The Senate amendment and the motion shall be considered as read. The motion 
shall be debatable for 80 minutes, with 60 minutes equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Appropriations and 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and the Workforce. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption 
without intervening motion.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of the motion specified in the first section of this 
resolution, House Concurrent Resolution 122 shall be considered as adopted.
    Sec. 3.  The chair of the Committee on Appropriations may insert in the 
Congressional Record at any time during the remainder of the second session of 
the 113th Congress such material as he may deem explanatory of the Senate 
amendment and the motion specified in the first section of this resolution.
    Sec. 4.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the 
legislative day of December 12, 2014.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
