
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1982 Referred to Committee Senate (RTS)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 1982

To improve the provision of medical services and benefits to veterans, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            February 3, 2014

  Mr. Sanders (for himself, Ms. Hirono, Ms. Landrieu, Mr. Begich, Mr. 
   Schatz, Mr. Brown, Mr. Blumenthal, Ms. Heitkamp, Mrs. Boxer, Mr. 
 Whitehouse, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Casey, Mr. Merkley, Mr. 
  Heinrich, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Reed, Mr. Tester, Mr. Rockefeller, Ms. 
Cantwell, Mr. Booker, Ms. Stabenow, Mr. Coons, Mr. Markey, Mr. Schumer, 
  Mr. Franken, Mr. Walsh, Mr. Kaine, and Ms. Baldwin) introduced the 
             following bill; which was read the first time

                            February 4, 2014

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

                           February 27, 2014

Committed to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs pursuant to section 312 
                    of the Congressional Budget Act

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To improve the provision of medical services and benefits to veterans, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Comprehensive 
Veterans Health and Benefits and Military Retirement Pay Restoration 
Act of 2014''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. References to title 38, United States Code.
Sec. 3. Budgetary effects.
                TITLE I--SURVIVOR AND DEPENDENT MATTERS

Sec. 101. Extension of initial period for increased dependency and 
                            indemnity compensation for surviving 
                            spouses with children.
Sec. 102. Eligibility for dependency and indemnity compensation, 
                            educational assistance, and housing loans 
                            for surviving spouses who remarry after age 
                            55.
Sec. 103. Extension of marriage delimiting date for surviving spouses 
                            of Persian Gulf War veterans to qualify for 
                            death pension.
Sec. 104. Making effective date provision consistent with provision for 
                            benefits eligibility of a veteran's child 
                            based upon termination of remarriage by 
                            annulment.
Sec. 105. Expansion of Marine Gunnery Sergeant John David Fry 
                            Scholarship.
Sec. 106. Expansion of Yellow Ribbon G.I. Education Enhancement 
                            Program.
Sec. 107. Benefits for children of certain Thailand service veterans 
                            born with spina bifida.
Sec. 108. Program on assisted living for children of Vietnam veterans 
                            and certain Korea service veterans born 
                            with spina bifida.
Sec. 109. Program on grief counseling in retreat settings for surviving 
                            spouses of members of the Armed Forces who 
                            die while serving on active duty in the 
                            Armed Forces.
Sec. 110. Program evaluation on survivors' and dependents' educational 
                            assistance authorities.
                      TITLE II--EDUCATION MATTERS

Sec. 201. Approval of courses of education provided by public 
                            institutions of higher learning for 
                            purposes of All-Volunteer Force Educational 
                            Assistance Program and Post-9/11 
                            Educational Assistance conditional on in-
                            State tuition rate for veterans.
Sec. 202. Extension and expansion of authority for certain qualifying 
                            work-study activities for purposes of the 
                            educational assistance programs of the 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 203. Prohibitions relating to references to GI Bill and Post-9/11 
                            GI Bill.
Sec. 204. Review of utilization of educational assistance to pursue 
                            programs of training on the job and 
                            participating employers.
Sec. 205. Report on debt management and collection.
Sec. 206. Restoration of prior reporting fee multipliers.
                     TITLE III--HEALTH CARE MATTERS

      Subtitle A--Expansion and Improvements of Benefits Generally

Sec. 301. Requirement for enrollment in patient enrollment system of 
                            the Department of Veterans Affairs of 
                            certain veterans eligible for enrollment by 
                            law but not currently permitted to enroll.
Sec. 302. Further extension of period of eligibility for health care 
                            for veterans of combat service during 
                            certain periods of hostilities and war.
Sec. 303. Extension to all veterans with a serious service-connected 
                            disability of eligibility for participation 
                            in family caregiver program.
Sec. 304. Improved access to appropriate immunizations for veterans.
Sec. 305. Expansion of provision of chiropractic care and services to 
                            veterans.
Sec. 306. Modification of commencement date of period of service at 
                            Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, for 
                            eligibility for hospital care and medical 
                            services in connection with exposure to 
                            contaminated water.
Sec. 307. Expansion of emergency treatment reimbursement for certain 
                            veterans.
Sec. 308. Modification of determination of eligibility of veterans for 
                            treatment as a low-income family for 
                            purposes of enrollment in the patient 
                            enrollment system of the Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 309. Extension of sunset date regarding transportation of 
                            individuals to and from facilities of 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs and 
                            requirement of report.
Sec. 310. Coverage of costs of care for veterans at medical foster 
                            homes.
Sec. 311. Extension and modification of pilot program on assisted 
                            living services for veterans with traumatic 
                            brain injury.
Sec. 312. Program on health promotion for overweight and obese veterans 
                            through support of fitness center 
                            memberships.
Sec. 313. Program on health promotion for veterans through 
                            establishment of Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs fitness facilities.
                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 321. Extension of Department of Veterans Affairs Health 
                            Professional Scholarship Program.
Sec. 322. Expansion of availability of prosthetic and orthotic care for 
                            veterans.
Sec. 323. Contracting for health care.
Sec. 324. Limitation on expansion of dialysis pilot program.
Sec. 325. Requirement for Department of Veterans Affairs policy on 
                            reporting cases of infectious diseases at 
                            facilities of the Department.
Sec. 326. Independent assessment of the Veterans Integrated Service 
                            Networks and medical centers of Department 
                            of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 327. Requirements in connection with next update of current 
                            strategic plan for Office of Rural Health 
                            of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 328. Report on provision of telemedicine services.
Sec. 329. Designation of Corporal Michael J. Crescenz Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs Medical Center.
           Subtitle C--Complementary and Alternative Medicine

Sec. 331. Expansion of research and education on and delivery of 
                            complementary and alternative medicine to 
                            veterans.
Sec. 332. Program on integration of complementary and alternative 
                            medicine within Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs medical centers.
Sec. 333. Studies of barriers encountered by veterans in receiving, and 
                            administrators and clinicians in providing, 
                            complementary and alternative medicine 
                            services furnished by the Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 334. Program on use of wellness programs as complementary approach 
                            to mental health care for veterans and 
                            family members of veterans.
                     Subtitle D--Mental Health Care

Sec. 341. Inclusion of mental health professionals in the education and 
                            training program for health personnel of 
                            the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 342. Education program and peer support program for family members 
                            and caregivers of veterans with mental 
                            health disorders.
Sec. 343. Report on provision of mental health services for families of 
                            certain veterans at facilities of the 
                            Department.
Sec. 344. Annual report on community mental health partnership pilot 
                            program.
     Subtitle E--Dental Care Eligibility Expansion and Enhancement

Sec. 351. Restorative dental services for veterans.
Sec. 352. Pilot program on expansion of furnishing of dental care to 
                            all enrolled veterans.
Sec. 353. Program on education to promote dental health in veterans.
Sec. 354. Information on dental services for inclusion in electronic 
                            medical records under dental insurance 
                            pilot program.
Sec. 355. Authorization of appropriations.
            Subtitle F--Health Care Related to Sexual Trauma

Sec. 361. Expansion of eligibility for sexual trauma counseling and 
                            treatment to veterans on inactive duty 
                            training.
Sec. 362. Provision of counseling and treatment for sexual trauma by 
                            the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
                            members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 363. Department of Veterans Affairs screening mechanism to detect 
                            incidents of domestic abuse.
Sec. 364. Reports on military sexual trauma and domestic abuse.
            Subtitle G--Reproductive Treatment and Services

Sec. 371. Clarification that fertility counseling and treatment are 
                            medical services which the Secretary may 
                            furnish to veterans like other medical 
                            services.
Sec. 372. Reproductive treatment and care for spouses and surrogates of 
                            veterans.
Sec. 373. Adoption assistance for severely wounded veterans.
Sec. 374. Regulations on furnishing of fertility counseling and 
                            treatment and adoption assistance by 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 375. Coordination between Department of Veterans Affairs and 
                            Department of Defense on furnishing of 
                            fertility counseling and treatment.
Sec. 376. Facilitation of reproduction and infertility research.
Sec. 377. Annual report on provision of fertility counseling and 
                            treatment furnished by Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 378. Program on assistance for child care for certain veterans.
Sec. 379. Counseling in retreat settings for women veterans newly 
                            separated from service in the Armed Forces.
               Subtitle H--Major Medical Facility Leases

Sec. 381. Authorization of major medical facility leases.
Sec. 382. Budgetary treatment of Department of Veterans Affairs major 
                            medical facilities leases.
                TITLE IV--EMPLOYMENT AND RELATED MATTERS

Subtitle A--Training and Other Services for Veterans Seeking Employment

Sec. 401. Reauthorization of veterans retraining assistance program.
Sec. 402. Extension of authority of Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
                            provide rehabilitation and vocational 
                            benefits to members of Armed Forces with 
                            severe injuries or illnesses.
Sec. 403. Extension of additional rehabilitation programs for persons 
                            who have exhausted rights to unemployment 
                            benefits under State law.
Sec. 404. Unified employment portal for veterans.
Sec. 405. Report on unified Government Internet portal for veterans on 
                            jobs available through the Federal 
                            Government.
Sec. 406. Information on disability-related employment and education 
                            protections in Transition Assistance 
                            Program.
 Subtitle B--Employment of Veterans and Recognition of Veteran Status 
               With Respect to Employment Related Matters

Sec. 411. Employment of veterans with the Federal Government.
Sec. 412. State recognition of military experience of veterans in 
                            issuing licenses and credentials to 
                            veterans.
Sec. 413. Grants to hire veterans as first responders.
Sec. 414. Employment of veterans as evaluation factor in the awarding 
                            of Federal contracts.
Sec. 415. Report on discrimination against members of reserve 
                            components of Armed Forces and veterans in 
                            civilian labor market.
                Subtitle C--Program on Career Transition

Sec. 421. Program on provision of career transition services to young 
                            veterans.
Subtitle D--Improving Employment and Reemployment Rights of Members of 
                         the Uniformed Services

Sec. 431. Enforcement of rights of members of uniformed services with 
                            respect to States and private employers.
Sec. 432. Suspension, termination, or debarment of contractors for 
                            repeated violations of employment or 
                            reemployment rights of members of uniformed 
                            services.
Sec. 433. Subpoena power for Special Counsel in enforcement of 
                            employment and reemployment rights of 
                            members of uniformed services with respect 
                            to Federal executive agencies.
Sec. 434. Issuance and service of civil investigative demands by 
                            Attorney General.
                   Subtitle E--Small Business Matters

Sec. 441. Expansion of contracting goals and preferences of Department 
                            of Veterans Affairs to include 
                            conditionally owned small business concerns 
                            100 percent owned by veterans.
Sec. 442. Modification of treatment under contracting goals and 
                            preferences of Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs for small businesses owned by 
                            veterans of small businesses after death of 
                            disabled veteran owners.
Sec. 443. Treatment of businesses after deaths of servicemember-owners 
                            for purposes of Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs contracting goals and preferences.
Sec. 444. Special rule for treatment under contracting goals and 
                            preferences of Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs of small business concerns licensed 
                            in community property States.
Sec. 445. Report on assistance for veterans in obtaining training on 
                            purchasing and operating a franchise.
        TITLE V--ACCOUNTABILITY AND ADMINISTRATIVE IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 501. Administration of Veterans Integrated Service Networks.
Sec. 502. Regional support centers for Veterans Integrated Service 
                            Networks.
Sec. 503. Commission on Capital Planning for Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs Medical Facilities.
Sec. 504. Advance appropriations for certain accounts of the Department 
                            of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 505. Public access to Department of Veterans Affairs research and 
                            data sharing between Departments.
Sec. 506. Assessment by Comptroller General of the United States of 
                            information made available by Veterans 
                            Benefits Administration.
Sec. 507. Comptroller general report on advisory committees of the 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
     TITLE VI--IMPROVEMENT OF PROCESSING OF CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION

           Subtitle A--Claims Based on Military Sexual Trauma

Sec. 601. Medical examination and opinion for disability compensation 
                            claims based on military sexual trauma.
Sec. 602. Case representative officers for military sexual trauma 
                            support.
Sec. 603. Report on standard of proof for service-connection of mental 
                            health conditions related to military 
                            sexual trauma.
Sec. 604. Reports on claims for disabilities incurred or aggravated by 
                            military sexual trauma.
      Subtitle B--Claims for Dependency and Indemnity Compensation

Sec. 611. Program on treatment of certain applications for dependency 
                            and indemnity compensation as fully 
                            developed claims.
Sec. 612. Report by Secretary of Veterans Affairs on improving 
                            timeliness and accuracy of administration 
                            of claims for dependency and indemnity 
                            compensation and pension for surviving 
                            spouses and children.
              Subtitle C--Agency of Original Jurisdiction

Sec. 621. Working group to improve employee work credit and work 
                            management systems of Veterans Benefits 
                            Administration in an electronic 
                            environment.
Sec. 622. Task force on retention and training of Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs claims processors and 
                            adjudicators.
Sec. 623. Reports on requests by the Department of Veterans Affairs for 
                            records of other Federal agencies.
Sec. 624. Recognition of representatives of Indian tribes in the 
                            preparation, presentation, and prosecution 
                            of claims under laws administered by the 
                            Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 625. Program on participation of local and tribal governments in 
                            improving quality of claims for disability 
                            compensation submitted to Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 626. Department of Veterans Affairs notice of average times for 
                            processing compensation claims.
Sec. 627. Quarterly reports on progress of Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs in eliminating backlog of claims 
                            for compensation that have not been 
                            adjudicated.
Sec. 628. Reports on use of existing authorities to expedite benefits 
                            decisions.
Sec. 629. Reports on Department disability medical examinations and 
                            prevention of unnecessary medical 
                            examinations.
    Subtitle D--Board of Veterans' Appeals and Court of Appeals for 
                            Veterans Claims

Sec. 631. Treatment of certain misfiled documents as a notice of appeal 
                            to the Court of Appeals for Veterans 
                            Claims.
Sec. 632. Determination of manner of appearance for hearings before 
                            Board of Veterans' Appeals.
                      TITLE VII--OUTREACH MATTERS

Sec. 701. Program to increase coordination of outreach efforts between 
                            the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
                            Federal, State, and local agencies and 
                            nonprofit organizations.
Sec. 702. Cooperative agreements between Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
                            and States on outreach activities.
Sec. 703. Advisory committee on outreach activities of Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 704. Advisory boards on outreach activities of Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs relating to health care.
Sec. 705. Modification of requirement for periodic reports to Congress 
                            on outreach activities of Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 706. Budget transparency for outreach activities of Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
TITLE VIII--ENHANCEMENT OF RIGHTS UNDER SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL RELIEF ACT

Sec. 801. Modification of period determining which actions are covered 
                            under stay of proceedings and adjustment of 
                            obligation protections concerning mortgages 
                            and trust deeds of members of uniformed 
                            services.
Sec. 802. Protections for members of uniformed services regarding 
                            professional licenses.
Sec. 803. Prohibition on denial of credit because of eligibility for 
                            protection.
Sec. 804. Interest rate limitation on debt entered into during military 
                            service to consolidate or refinance student 
                            loans incurred before military service.
Sec. 805. Termination of residential leases after assignment or 
                            relocation to quarters of United States or 
                            housing facility under jurisdiction of 
                            uniformed service.
Sec. 806. Protection of surviving spouse with respect to mortgage 
                            foreclosure.
Sec. 807. Improved protection of members of uniformed services against 
                            default judgments.
Sec. 808. Clarification regarding application of enforcement authority 
                            of Attorney General and private right of 
                            action under Servicemembers Civil Relief 
                            Act.
Sec. 809. Clerical amendments.
                        TITLE IX--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 901. Repeal of reductions made by Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013.
Sec. 902. Consideration by Secretary of Veterans Affairs of resources 
                            disposed of for less than fair market value 
                            by individuals applying for pension.
Sec. 903. Extension of reduced pension for certain veterans covered by 
                            medicaid plans for services furnished by 
                            nursing facilities.
Sec. 904. Conditions on award of per diem payments by Secretary of 
                            Veterans Affairs for provision of housing 
                            or services to homeless veterans.
Sec. 905. Exception to certain recapture requirements and treatment of 
                            contracts and grants with State homes with 
                            respect to care for homeless veterans.
Sec. 906. Extended period for scheduling of medical exams for veterans 
                            receiving temporary disability ratings for 
                            severe mental disorders.
Sec. 907. Authority to issue Veterans ID Cards.
Sec. 908. Honoring as veterans certain persons who performed service in 
                            the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 909. Extension of authority for Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
                            obtain information from Secretary of 
                            Treasury and Commissioner of Social 
                            Security for income verification purposes.
Sec. 910. Extension of authority for Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
                            issue and guarantee certain loans.
Sec. 911. Review of determination of certain service in Philippines 
                            during World War II.
Sec. 912. Review of determination of certain service of merchant 
                            mariners during World War II.
Sec. 913. Report on Laotian military support of Armed Forces of the 
                            United States during Vietnam War.
Sec. 914. Report on practices of the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
                            adequately provide services to veterans 
                            with hearing loss.
Sec. 915. Report on joint programs of Department of Veterans Affairs 
                            and Department of Defense with respect to 
                            hearing loss of members of the Armed Forces 
                            and veterans.
Sec. 916. Limitation on aggregate amount of bonuses payable to 
                            personnel of the Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs during fiscal year 2014.
Sec. 917. Amendment to OCO adjustments.

SEC. 2. REFERENCES TO TITLE 38, UNITED STATES CODE.

    Except as otherwise expressly provided, whenever in this Act an 
amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to 
be made to a section or other provision of title 38, United States 
Code.

SEC. 3. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    (a) Paygo Scorecard.--The budgetary effects of this Act shall not 
be entered on either PAYGO scorecard maintained pursuant to section 
4(d) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 933(d)).
    (b) Senate Paygo Scorecard.--The budgetary effects of this Act 
shall not be entered on any PAYGO scorecard maintained for purposes of 
section 201 of S. Con. Res. 21 (110th Congress).

                TITLE I--SURVIVOR AND DEPENDENT MATTERS

SEC. 101. EXTENSION OF INITIAL PERIOD FOR INCREASED DEPENDENCY AND 
              INDEMNITY COMPENSATION FOR SURVIVING SPOUSES WITH 
              CHILDREN.

    (a) In General.--Section 1311(f)(2) is amended by striking ``two-
year'' and inserting ``three-year''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect as of September 30, 2014, and shall apply to any surviving 
spouse who was eligible for or in receipt of benefits under section 
1311(f) of title 38, United States Code, on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 102. ELIGIBILITY FOR DEPENDENCY AND INDEMNITY COMPENSATION, 
              EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE, AND HOUSING LOANS FOR SURVIVING 
              SPOUSES WHO REMARRY AFTER AGE 55.

    (a) In General.--Paragraph (2)(B) of section 103(d) is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(B) The remarriage after age 55 of the surviving spouse of a 
veteran shall not bar the furnishing of benefits specified in paragraph 
(5) to such person as the surviving spouse of the veteran.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Paragraph (5) of such section is amended 
by striking ``Paragraphs (2)(A)'' and inserting ``Paragraphs (2)''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 103. EXTENSION OF MARRIAGE DELIMITING DATE FOR SURVIVING SPOUSES 
              OF PERSIAN GULF WAR VETERANS TO QUALIFY FOR DEATH 
              PENSION.

    Section 1541(f)(1)(E) is amended by striking ``January 1, 2001'' 
and inserting ``the date that is 10 years and one day after the date on 
which the Persian Gulf War was terminated, as prescribed by 
Presidential proclamation or by law''.

SEC. 104. MAKING EFFECTIVE DATE PROVISION CONSISTENT WITH PROVISION FOR 
              BENEFITS ELIGIBILITY OF A VETERAN'S CHILD BASED UPON 
              TERMINATION OF REMARRIAGE BY ANNULMENT.

    Section 5110(l) is amended by striking ``, or of an award or 
increase of benefits based on recognition of a child upon termination 
of the child's marriage by death or divorce,''.

SEC. 105. EXPANSION OF MARINE GUNNERY SERGEANT JOHN DAVID FRY 
              SCHOLARSHIP.

    (a) Expansion of Entitlement.--Subsection (b)(9) of section 3311 is 
amended by inserting ``or spouse'' after ``child''.
    (b) Limitation and Election on Certain Benefits.--Subsection (f) of 
such section is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (4); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(2) Limitation.--The entitlement of an individual to 
        assistance under subsection (a) pursuant to paragraph (9) of 
        subsection (b) because the individual was a spouse of a person 
        described in such paragraph shall expire on the earlier of--
                    ``(A) the date that is 15 years after the date on 
                which the person died; and
                    ``(B) the date on which the individual remarries.
            ``(3) Election on receipt of certain benefits.--A surviving 
        spouse entitled to assistance under subsection (a) pursuant to 
        paragraph (9) of subsection (b) who is also entitled to 
        educational assistance under chapter 35 of this title may not 
        receive assistance under both this section and such chapter, 
        but shall make an irrevocable election (in such form and manner 
        as the Secretary may prescribe) under which section or chapter 
        to receive educational assistance.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 3321(b)(4) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``an individual'' and inserting ``a 
        child''; and
            (2) by striking ``such individual's'' each time it appears 
        and inserting ``such child's''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date that is two years after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 106. EXPANSION OF YELLOW RIBBON G.I. EDUCATION ENHANCEMENT 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 3317(a) is amended by striking ``in 
paragraphs (1) and (2)'' and inserting ``in paragraphs (1), (2), and 
(9)''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to academic terms beginning after July 1, 2015.

SEC. 107. BENEFITS FOR CHILDREN OF CERTAIN THAILAND SERVICE VETERANS 
              BORN WITH SPINA BIFIDA.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 18 is amended by adding 
at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1822. Benefits for children of certain Thailand service veterans 
              born with spina bifida
    ``(a) Benefits Authorized.--The Secretary may provide to any child 
of a veteran of covered service in Thailand who is suffering from spina 
bifida the health care, vocational training and rehabilitation, and 
monetary allowance required to be paid to a child of a Vietnam veteran 
who is suffering from spina bifida under subchapter I of this chapter 
as if such child of a veteran of covered service in Thailand were a 
child of a Vietnam veteran who is suffering from spina bifida under 
such subchapter.
    ``(b) Spina Bifida Conditions Covered.--This section applies with 
respect to all forms and manifestations of spina bifida, except spina 
bifida occulta.
    ``(c) Veteran of Covered Service in Thailand.--For purposes of this 
section, a veteran of covered service in Thailand is any individual, 
without regard to the characterization of that individual's service, 
who--
            ``(1) served in the active military, naval, or air service 
        in Thailand, as determined by the Secretary in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Defense, during the period beginning on 
        January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 1975; and
            ``(2) is determined by the Secretary, in consultation with 
        the Secretary of Defense, to have been exposed to a herbicide 
        agent during such service in Thailand.
    ``(d) Herbicide Agent.--For purposes of this section, the term 
`herbicide agent' means a chemical in a herbicide used in support of 
United States and allied military operations in Thailand, as determined 
by the Secretary in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, during 
the period beginning on January 9, 1962, and ending on May 7, 1975.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment to Definition of ``Child''.--Section 
1831(1) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B)--
                    (A) by striking ``subchapter III of this chapter'' 
                and inserting ``section 1821 of this title''; and
                    (B) in clause (i), by striking ``section 1821 of 
                this title'' and inserting ``that section''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(C) For purposes of section 1822 of this title, an 
        individual, regardless of age or marital status, who--
                    ``(i) is the natural child of a veteran of covered 
                service in Thailand (as determined for purposes of that 
                section); and
                    ``(ii) was conceived after the date on which that 
                veteran first entered service described in subsection 
                (c) of that section.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Subchapter heading.--The heading for subchapter III of 
        chapter 18 is amended by inserting ``AND THAILAND'' after 
        ``KOREA''.
            (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 18 is amended--
                    (A) by striking the item relating to subchapter III 
                and inserting the following new item:

   ``subchapter iii--children of certain korea and thailand service 
                   veterans born with spina bifida'';

        and
                    (B) by inserting after the item relating to section 
                1821 the following new item:

``1822. Benefits for children of certain Thailand service veterans born 
                            with spina bifida.''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 108. PROGRAM ON ASSISTED LIVING FOR CHILDREN OF VIETNAM VETERANS 
              AND CERTAIN KOREA SERVICE VETERANS BORN WITH SPINA 
              BIFIDA.

    (a) Program.--Commencing not later than 180 days after the date on 
which this section takes effect, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall carry out a program to assess the feasibility and advisability of 
providing assisted living, group home care, or similar services in lieu 
of nursing home care to covered individuals.
    (b) Covered Individuals.--For purposes of this section, a covered 
individual is any individual who is entitled to health care under 
subchapter I or III of chapter 18 of title 38, United States Code.
    (c) Duration.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection, the program shall be carried out during the three-
        year period beginning on the date of the commencement of the 
        program.
            (2) Continuation.--Subject to paragraph (3), the Secretary 
        may continue the program for an additional two-year period as 
        the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (3) Termination.--The program may not operate after the 
        date that is five years after the date of the commencement of 
        the program.
    (d) Scope of Services and Program.--Under the program, the 
Secretary shall provide covered individuals with integrated, 
comprehensive services, including the following:
            (1) Assisted living, group home care, or such other similar 
        services as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Transportation services.
            (3) Such other services as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate for the care of covered individuals under the 
        program.
    (e) Program Requirements.--In carrying out the program, the 
Secretary shall--
            (1) inform all covered individuals of the services 
        available under the program;
            (2) enter into agreements with appropriate providers of 
        assisted living, group home care, or other similar services for 
        provision of services under the program; and
            (3) determine the appropriate number of covered individuals 
        to be enrolled in the program and criteria for such enrollment.
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) Preliminary reports.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
                date of the commencement of the program and, if the 
                program is continued under subsection (c)(2), not later 
                than three years after the date of the commencement of 
                the program, the Secretary shall submit to the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives a report on the program.
                    (B) Contents.--Each report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) A description of the implementation and 
                        operation of the program.
                            (ii) The number of covered individuals 
                        receiving benefits under the program.
                            (iii) An analysis that compares the costs 
                        of furnishing assisted living, group home care, 
                        or similar services with the costs of 
                        furnishing nursing home care.
                            (iv) An analysis of the costs and benefits 
                        under the program.
                            (v) The findings and conclusions of the 
                        Secretary with respect to the program.
                            (vi) Such recommendations for the 
                        continuation or expansion of the program as the 
                        Secretary may have.
            (2) Final report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                completion of the program, the Secretary shall submit 
                to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and 
                the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives a report on the program.
                    (B) Contents.--The report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) The findings and conclusions of the 
                        Secretary with respect to the program.
                            (ii) Such recommendations for the 
                        continuation or expansion of the program as the 
                        Secretary may have.
    (g) Funding.--Amounts to carry out the program shall be derived 
from amounts appropriated or otherwise made available for the 
furnishing of nursing home care under chapter 18 of title 38, United 
States Code.
    (h) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 109. PROGRAM ON GRIEF COUNSELING IN RETREAT SETTINGS FOR SURVIVING 
              SPOUSES OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHO DIE WHILE 
              SERVING ON ACTIVE DUTY IN THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Program Required.--
            (1) In general.--Commencing not later than 180 days after 
        the date on which this section takes effect, the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs shall carry out, through the Readjustment 
        Counseling Service of the Veterans Health Administration, a 
        program to assess the feasibility and advisability of providing 
        grief counseling services described in subsection (b) in group 
        retreat settings to surviving spouses of members of the Armed 
        Forces who die while serving on active duty in the Armed Forces 
        who would, as determined by the Readjustment Counseling 
        Service, benefit from the services provided under the program.
            (2) Participation at election of surviving spouse.--The 
        participation of a surviving spouse in the program under this 
        section shall be at the election of the surviving spouse.
    (b) Covered Services.--The services provided to a surviving spouse 
under the program shall include the following:
            (1) Information and counseling on coping with grief.
            (2) Information about benefits and services available to 
        surviving spouses under laws administered by the Secretary.
            (3) Such other information and counseling as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate to assist a surviving spouse under the 
        program with adjusting to the death of a spouse.
    (c) Events.--The Secretary shall carry out the program at not fewer 
than six events as follows:
            (1) Three events at which surviving spouses with dependent 
        children are encouraged to bring their children.
            (2) Three events at which surviving spouses with dependent 
        children are not encouraged to bring their children.
    (d) Duration.--The program shall be carried out during the two-year 
period beginning on the date of the commencement of the program.
    (e) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        completion of the first year of the program and not later than 
        180 days after the completion of the program, the Secretary 
        shall submit to Congress a report on the program.
            (2) Contents.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall contain the findings and conclusions of the Secretary as 
        a result of the program, and shall include such recommendations 
        for the continuation or expansion of the program as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``active duty'', 
``Armed Forces'', and ``surviving spouse'' have the meanings given such 
terms in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
    (g) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 110. PROGRAM EVALUATION ON SURVIVORS' AND DEPENDENTS' EDUCATIONAL 
              ASSISTANCE AUTHORITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall enter into 
a contract with an appropriate private sector entity to conduct a 
program evaluation of the authorities for survivors' and dependents' 
educational assistance under chapter 35 of title 38, United States 
Code.
    (b) Report.--Not later than six months after the entry into the 
contract required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report setting 
forth the results of the program evaluation conducted pursuant to the 
contract, together with such comments on the results of the program 
evaluation as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect one year after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

                      TITLE II--EDUCATION MATTERS

SEC. 201. APPROVAL OF COURSES OF EDUCATION PROVIDED BY PUBLIC 
              INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER LEARNING FOR PURPOSES OF ALL-
              VOLUNTEER FORCE EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM AND POST-
              9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE CONDITIONAL ON IN-STATE 
              TUITION RATE FOR VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3679 is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(c)(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter and 
subject to paragraphs (3) through (6), the Secretary shall disapprove a 
course of education provided by a public institution of higher learning 
to a covered individual pursuing a course of education with educational 
assistance under chapter 30 or 33 of this title while living in the 
State in which the public institution of higher learning is located if 
the institution charges tuition and fees for that course for the 
covered individual at a rate that is higher than the rate the 
institution charges for tuition and fees for that course for residents 
of the State in which the institution is located, regardless of the 
covered individual's State of residence.
    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, a covered individual is any 
individual as follows:
            ``(A) A veteran who was discharged or released from a 
        period of not fewer than 90 days of service in the active 
        military, naval, or air service less than three years before 
        the date of enrollment in the course concerned.
            ``(B) An individual who is entitled to assistance under 
        section 3311(b)(9) or 3319 of this title by virtue of such 
        individual's relationship to a veteran described in 
        subparagraph (A).
    ``(3) If after enrollment in a course of education that is subject 
to disapproval under paragraph (1) by reason of paragraph (2)(A) or 
(2)(B) a covered individual pursues one or more courses of education at 
the same public institution of higher learning while remaining 
continuously enrolled (other than during regularly scheduled breaks 
between courses, semesters or terms) at that institution of higher 
learning, any course so pursued by the covered individual at that 
institution of higher learning while so continuously enrolled shall 
also be subject to disapproval under paragraph (1).
    ``(4) It shall not be grounds to disapprove a course of education 
under paragraph (1) if a public institution of higher learning requires 
a covered individual pursuing a course of education at the institution 
to demonstrate an intent, by means other than satisfying a physical 
presence requirement, to establish residency in the State in which the 
institution is located, or to satisfy other requirements not relating 
to the establishment of residency, in order to be charged tuition and 
fees for that course at a rate that is equal to or less than the rate 
the institution charges for tuition and fees for that course for 
residents of the State.
    ``(5) The Secretary may waive such requirements of paragraph (1) as 
the Secretary considers appropriate.
    ``(6) Disapproval under paragraph (1) shall apply only with respect 
to educational assistance under chapters 30 and 33 of this title.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (c) of section 3679 of title 38, 
United States Code (as added by subsection (a) of this section), shall 
apply with respect to educational assistance provided for pursuit of 
programs of education during academic terms that begin after July 1, 
2015, through courses of education that commence on or after that date.

SEC. 202. EXTENSION AND EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN QUALIFYING 
              WORK-STUDY ACTIVITIES FOR PURPOSES OF THE EDUCATIONAL 
              ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS.

    (a) Extension of Expiring Current Authority.--Section 3485(a)(4) is 
amended by striking ``June 30, 2013'' each place it appears and 
inserting ``June 30, 2015''.
    (b) Expansion to Outreach Services Provided Through Congressional 
Offices.--Such section is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new subparagraph:
            ``(K) During the period beginning on June 30, 2013, and 
        ending on June 30, 2015, the following activities carried out 
        at the offices of Members of Congress for such Members:
                    ``(i) The distribution of information to members of 
                the Armed Forces, veterans, and their dependents about 
                the benefits and services under laws administered by 
                the Secretary and other appropriate governmental and 
                nongovernmental programs.
                    ``(ii) The preparation and processing of papers and 
                other documents, including documents to assist in the 
                preparation and presentation of claims for benefits 
                under laws administered by the Secretary.''.
    (c) Annual Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than June 30 of 2014 and 2015, 
        the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to Congress a 
        report on the work-study allowances paid under paragraph (1) of 
        section 3485(a) of title 38, United States Code, during the 
        most recent one-year period for qualifying work-study 
        activities described in paragraph (4) of such section, as 
        amended by subsections (a) and (b) of this section.
            (2) Contents.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include, for the year covered by such report, the 
        following:
                    (A) A description of the recipients of such work-
                study allowances.
                    (B) A list of the locations where qualifying work-
                study activities were carried out.
                    (C) A description of the outreach conducted by the 
                Secretary to increase awareness of the eligibility of 
                such work-study activities for such work-study 
                allowances.

SEC. 203. PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO REFERENCES TO GI BILL AND POST-9/11 
              GI BILL.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 36 is amended by adding 
at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 3697B. Prohibition relating to references to GI Bill and Post-9/
              11 GI Bill
    ``(a) Prohibition.--(1) No person may, except with the written 
permission of the Secretary, use the words and phrases covered by this 
subsection in connection with any promotion, goods, services, or 
commercial activity in a manner that reasonably and falsely suggests 
that such use is approved, endorsed, or authorized by the Department or 
any component thereof.
    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, the words and phrases 
covered by this subsection are as follows:
            ``(A) `GI Bill'.
            ``(B) `Post-9/11 GI Bill'.
    ``(3) A determination that a use of one or more words and phrases 
covered by this subsection in connection with a promotion, goods, 
services, or commercial activity is not a violation of this subsection 
may not be made solely on the ground that such promotion, goods, 
services, or commercial activity includes a disclaimer of affiliation 
with the Department or any component thereof.
    ``(b) Enforcement by Attorney General.--(1) When any person is 
engaged or is about to engage in an act or practice which constitutes 
or will constitute conduct prohibited by subsection (a), the Attorney 
General may initiate a civil proceeding in a district court of the 
United States to enjoin such act or practice.
    ``(2) Such court may, at any time before final determination, enter 
such restraining orders or prohibitions, or take such other action as 
is warranted, to prevent injury to the United States or to any person 
or class of persons for whose protection the action is brought.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 36 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
3697A the following new item:

``3697B. Prohibition relating to references to GI Bill and Post-9/11 GI 
                            Bill.''.

SEC. 204. REVIEW OF UTILIZATION OF EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE TO PURSUE 
              PROGRAMS OF TRAINING ON THE JOB AND PARTICIPATING 
              EMPLOYERS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall commence 
a review of--
            (1) the utilization of educational assistance under laws 
        administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to pursue 
        programs of training on the job (other than programs of 
        apprenticeship); and
            (2) the availability of such programs to individuals 
        seeking to pursue such programs with such educational 
        assistance.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than two years after the date on 
        which the Secretary commences the review required by subsection 
        (a), the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on such 
        review.
            (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The extent of utilization as described in 
                paragraph (1) of subsection (a).
                    (B) An assessment of the availability of programs 
                as described in paragraph (2) of such subsection.
                    (C) A description of any barriers the Secretary has 
                identified to greater utilization of educational 
                assistance for pursuit of a program of training on the 
                job or availability of such programs.
                    (D) Such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Secretary may have to 
                increase or decrease such utilization or availability.
                    (E) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.

SEC. 205. REPORT ON DEBT MANAGEMENT AND COLLECTION.

    (a) Report.--Not later than one year after the effective date 
specified in subsection (c), the Comptroller General of the United 
States shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate 
and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives 
a report on processes used by the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
identify and resolve cases of incorrect payments associated with 
educational assistance under chapters 30 and 33 of title 38, United 
States Code.
    (b) Issues Addressed.--The report required by subsection (a) shall, 
to the extent possible, address the following:
            (1) The effectiveness of the processes referred to in 
        subsection (a) in identifying and resolving incorrect payments 
        associated with educational assistance under chapters 30 and 33 
        of title 38, United States Code.
            (2) The accuracy of overpayment information provided to 
        veterans by the Education Service and Debt Management Center of 
        the Department.
            (3) How well the Debt Management Center of the Department 
        communicates and works with veterans to resolve disputed debt 
        amounts.
            (4) How the payment and debt collection processes of the 
        Department compare to comparable programs in other Federal 
        agencies.
            (5) Any recommendations to improve the payment and debt 
        collection processes of the Department that the Comptroller 
        General considers appropriate.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 206. RESTORATION OF PRIOR REPORTING FEE MULTIPLIERS.

    Section 3684(c) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``$12'' and inserting ``$7''; and
            (2) by striking ``$15'' and inserting ``$11''.

                     TITLE III--HEALTH CARE MATTERS

      Subtitle A--Expansion and Improvements of Benefits Generally

SEC. 301. REQUIREMENT FOR ENROLLMENT IN PATIENT ENROLLMENT SYSTEM OF 
              THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OF CERTAIN VETERANS 
              ELIGIBLE FOR ENROLLMENT BY LAW BUT NOT CURRENTLY 
              PERMITTED TO ENROLL.

    (a) Requirement for Enrollment.--Section 1705 is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d)(1) The Secretary shall provide for the enrollment in the 
patient enrollment system of veterans specified in paragraph (2) by not 
later than December 31, 2014.
    ``(2) Veterans specified in this paragraph are as follows:
            ``(A) Veterans with noncompensable service-connected 
        disabilities rated as zero percent disabling who--
                    ``(i) are not otherwise permitted to enroll in the 
                system as of the date of the enactment of the 
                Comprehensive Veterans Health and Benefits and Military 
                Retirement Pay Restoration Act of 2014; and
                    ``(ii) as of the date of enrollment under this 
                section, do not have access to health insurance except 
                through a health exchange established pursuant to 
                section 1311 of the Patient Protection and Affordable 
                Care Act (42 U.S.C. 18031).
            ``(B) Veterans without service-connected disability who--
                    ``(i) are not otherwise permitted to enroll in the 
                system as of the date of the enactment of the 
                Comprehensive Veterans Health and Benefits and Military 
                Retirement Pay Restoration Act of 2014; and
                    ``(ii) as of the date of enrollment under this 
                section, do not have access to health insurance except 
                through a health exchange established pursuant to 
                section 1311 of the Patient Protection and Affordable 
                Care Act.
    ``(3) A veteran who, after enrolling in the patient enrollment 
system pursuant to this subsection, obtains access to health insurance 
other than through a health exchange shall remain enrolled in the 
patient enrollment system notwithstanding obtaining access to such 
health insurance.
    ``(4) A veteran enrolled in the patient enrollment system pursuant 
to this subsection shall maintain the priority for care of the veteran 
at the time of enrollment unless and until a change in circumstances of 
the veteran results in a higher priority for care of the veteran under 
subsection (a).''.
    (b) Verification of Eligibility for Enrollment.--
            (1) Use of information on health insurance coverage.--
                    (A) In general.--Chapter 53 is amended by inserting 
                after section 5318 the following new section:
``Sec. 5319. Review of reporting of health insurance coverage
    ``The Secretary shall notify each veteran who enrolls under 
subsection (d) of section 1705 of this title in the patient enrollment 
system of veterans under such section that information on the veteran's 
access to health insurance that is furnished to the Secretary for 
purposes of such enrollment may be compared with information obtained 
by the Secretary of the Treasury under section 6103(l)(23) of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986.''.
                    (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at 
                the beginning of chapter 53 is amended by adding at the 
                end the following new item:

``5319. Review of reporting of health insurance coverage.''.
            (2) Disclosure of return information by internal revenue 
        service.--Section 6103(l) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 
        is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(23) Disclosure of certain return information for 
        verification of eligibility of veterans for enrollment in 
        department of veterans affairs patient enrollment system.--
                    ``(A) Return information from internal revenue 
                service.--The Secretary shall, upon written request, 
                disclose current return information from returns under 
                section 6055 with respect to minimum essential coverage 
                of individuals to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for 
                the purposes of verifying the eligibility of veterans 
                for enrollment in the patient enrollment system of the 
                Department of Veterans Affairs under section 1705(d) of 
                title 38.
                    ``(B) Restriction on disclosure.--The Secretary 
                shall disclose return information under subparagraph 
                (A) only for purposes of, and to the extent necessary 
                in, verifying the eligibility of veterans to enroll in 
                the patient enrollment system described in that 
                subparagraph.
                    ``(C) Restriction on use of disclosed 
                information.--Return information disclosed under 
                subparagraph (A) may be used by the Secretary of 
                Veterans Affairs only for the purposes of, and to the 
                extent necessary in, verifying the eligibility of 
                veterans to enroll in the patient enrollment system 
                described in that subparagraph.''.
    (c) Public Notice of Commencement of Enrollment.--The Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall publish in the Federal Register, and shall make 
available to the public on an Internet website of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs, a notice regarding the date on which veterans covered 
by subsection (d) of section 1705 of title 38, United States Code (as 
added by subsection (a) of this section), may commence enrollment in 
the patient enrollment system required by that section.

SEC. 302. FURTHER EXTENSION OF PERIOD OF ELIGIBILITY FOR HEALTH CARE 
              FOR VETERANS OF COMBAT SERVICE DURING CERTAIN PERIODS OF 
              HOSTILITIES AND WAR.

    Section 1710(e)(3) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``the date that is 
        five years before the date of the enactment of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008, after a period 
        of five years'' and inserting ``January 27, 2003, after a 
        period of 10 years''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``more than five 
        years'' and all that follows and inserting ``before January 28, 
        2003, and who did not enroll in the patient enrollment system 
        under section 1705 of this title before January 28, 2008, after 
        January 27, 2018.''.

SEC. 303. EXTENSION TO ALL VETERANS WITH A SERIOUS SERVICE-CONNECTED 
              DISABILITY OF ELIGIBILITY FOR PARTICIPATION IN FAMILY 
              CAREGIVER PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 1720G(a)(2)(B) is amended by striking ``on 
or after September 11, 2001''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on September 30, 2014.

SEC. 304. IMPROVED ACCESS TO APPROPRIATE IMMUNIZATIONS FOR VETERANS.

    (a) Inclusion of Recommended Adult Immunizations as Medical 
Services.--
            (1) Covered benefit.--Subparagraph (F) of section 1701(9) 
        is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(F) immunizations against infectious diseases, 
                including each immunization on the recommended adult 
                immunization schedule at the time such immunization is 
                indicated on that schedule;''.
            (2) Recommended adult immunization schedule defined.--
        Section 1701 is amended by adding after paragraph (9) the 
        following new paragraph:
            ``(10) The term `recommended adult immunization schedule' 
        means the schedule established (and periodically reviewed and, 
        as appropriate, revised) by the Advisory Committee on 
        Immunization Practices established by the Secretary of Health 
        and Human Services and delegated to the Centers for Disease 
        Control and Prevention.''.
    (b) Inclusion of Recommended Adult Immunizations in Annual 
Report.--Section 1704(1)(A) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by inserting after clause (ii) the following new 
        clause:
                            ``(iii) to provide veterans each 
                        immunization on the recommended adult 
                        immunization schedule at the time such 
                        immunization is indicated on that schedule.''.
    (c) Report to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than two years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the development and implementation 
        by the Department of Veterans Affairs of quality measures and 
        metrics, including targets for compliance, to ensure that 
        veterans receiving medical services under chapter 17 of title 
        38, United States Code, receive each immunization on the 
        recommended adult immunization schedule at the time such 
        immunization is indicated on that schedule.
            (2) Recommended adult immunization schedule defined.--In 
        this subsection, the term ``recommended adult immunization 
        schedule'' has the meaning given that term in section 1701(10) 
        of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a)(2).
            (3) Effective date.--This subsection shall take effect on 
        the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.

SEC. 305. EXPANSION OF PROVISION OF CHIROPRACTIC CARE AND SERVICES TO 
              VETERANS.

    (a) Program for Provision of Chiropractic Care and Services to 
Veterans.--Section 204(c) of the Department of Veterans Affairs Health 
Care Programs Enhancement Act of 2001 (Public Law 107-135; 115 Stat. 
2459; 38 U.S.C. 1710 note) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The program''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) The program shall be carried out at not fewer than two 
medical centers or clinics in each Veterans Integrated Service Network 
by not later than one year after the effective date specified in 
section 305(c) of the Comprehensive Veterans Health and Benefits and 
Military Retirement Pay Restoration Act of 2014, and at not fewer than 
50 percent of all medical centers in each Veterans Integrated Service 
Network by not later than two years after such effective date.''.
    (b) Expanded Chiropractor Services Available to Veterans.--
            (1) Medical services.--Paragraph (6) of section 1701 is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(H) Chiropractic services.''.
            (2) Rehabilitative services.--Paragraph (8) of such section 
        is amended by inserting ``chiropractic,'' after 
        ``counseling,''.
            (3) Preventive health services.--Paragraph (9) of such 
        section is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (F) through (K) 
                as subparagraphs (G) through (L), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the 
                following new subparagraph (F):
                    ``(F) periodic and preventive chiropractic 
                examinations and services;''.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall take effect on the date that is one year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 306. MODIFICATION OF COMMENCEMENT DATE OF PERIOD OF SERVICE AT 
              CAMP LEJEUNE, NORTH CAROLINA, FOR ELIGIBILITY FOR 
              HOSPITAL CARE AND MEDICAL SERVICES IN CONNECTION WITH 
              EXPOSURE TO CONTAMINATED WATER.

    (a) Modification.--Section 1710(e)(1)(F) is amended by striking 
``January 1, 1957,'' and inserting ``August 1, 1953 (or such earlier 
date for the commencement of exposure to contaminated water at Camp 
Lejeune as the Secretary, in consultation with the Agency for Toxic 
Substances and Disease Registry, shall specify),''.
    (b) Publication.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall publish 
in the Federal Register a notice of any earlier date for the 
commencement of exposure to contaminated water at Camp Lejeune, North 
Carolina, for purposes of section 1710(e)(1)(F) of title 38, United 
States Code, as amended by subsection (a).

SEC. 307. EXPANSION OF EMERGENCY TREATMENT REIMBURSEMENT FOR CERTAIN 
              VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1725(b)(2)(B) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(i)'' after ``(B)'';
            (2) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; 
        or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(ii) the veteran was unable to receive care under this 
        chapter within such 24-month period because of a waiting period 
        imposed by the Department with respect to a new patient 
        examination of such veteran.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date that is one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 308. MODIFICATION OF DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY OF VETERANS FOR 
              TREATMENT AS A LOW-INCOME FAMILY FOR PURPOSES OF 
              ENROLLMENT IN THE PATIENT ENROLLMENT SYSTEM OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Areas of Residence.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
modify the areas in which veterans reside as specified for purposes of 
determining whether veterans qualify for treatment as low-income 
families for enrollment in the patient enrollment system of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs under section 1705(a)(7) of title 38, 
United States Code, to meet the requirements as follows:
            (1) Any area so specified shall be within only one State.
            (2) Any area so specified shall be co-extensive with one or 
        more counties (or similar political subdivisions) in the State 
        concerned.
    (b) Variable Income Thresholds.--The Secretary shall modify the 
thresholds for income as specified for purposes of determining whether 
veterans qualify for treatment as low-income families for enrollment in 
the patient enrollment system referred to in subsection (a) to meet the 
requirements as follows:
            (1) There shall be one income threshold for each State, 
        equal to the highest income threshold among the counties within 
        such State.
            (2) The calculation of the highest income threshold of a 
        county shall be consistent with the calculation used for 
        purposes of section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 
        1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)).
            (3) The timing and methodology for implementing any 
        modifications in geographic income thresholds pursuant to 
        paragraph (1) shall be determined by the Secretary in such a 
        manner as to permit the Department to build capacity for 
        enrolling such additional veterans in the patient enrollment 
        system of the Department as become eligible for enrollment as a 
        result of such modifications, except that all required 
        modifications shall be completed not later than five years 
        after date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 309. EXTENSION OF SUNSET DATE REGARDING TRANSPORTATION OF 
              INDIVIDUALS TO AND FROM FACILITIES OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS AND REQUIREMENT OF REPORT.

    (a) Extension of Sunset Date.--Subsection (a)(2) of section 111A is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2014'' and inserting ``September 30, 
2015''.
    (b) Funding Available.--Such section is further amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Funding.--There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for 
each of fiscal years 2014 and 2015 for the Department, $4,000,000 to 
carry out this section.''.
    (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report on--
            (1) the efforts of the Secretary to carry out the 
        transportation services required by section 111A(a) of title 
        38, United States Code;
            (2) the utilization of those services by covered veterans; 
        and
            (3) the feasibility and advisability of the continuation of 
        the provision of such services after September 30, 2015.

SEC. 310. COVERAGE OF COSTS OF CARE FOR VETERANS AT MEDICAL FOSTER 
              HOMES.

    (a) In General.--In conducting the medical foster home program 
pursuant to section 17.73 of title 38, Code of Federal Regulations, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs may cover the costs associated with the 
care of veterans at medical foster homes.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (a) shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 311. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF PILOT PROGRAM ON ASSISTED 
              LIVING SERVICES FOR VETERANS WITH TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY.

    (a) Extension of Program.--Subsection (a) of section 1705 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
110-181; 38 U.S.C. 1710C note) is amended by striking ``a five-year'' 
and inserting ``an eight-year''.
    (b) Modification of Locations.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
            (2) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following 
        new paragraphs:
            ``(1) In general.--The pilot program shall be carried out 
        at locations selected by the Secretary for purposes of the 
        pilot program.
            ``(2) Located in same region as polytrauma centers.--Of the 
        locations selected under paragraph (1), at least one location 
        shall be in each health care region of the Veterans Health 
        Administration of the Department of Veterans Affairs that 
        contains a polytrauma center of the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs.''.
    (c) Modification of Report Requirements.--Subsection (e) of such 
section is amended to read as follows:
    ``(e) Reports.--
            ``(1) Annual report.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than two years after 
                the date of the enactment of the Comprehensive Veterans 
                Health and Benefits and Military Retirement Pay 
                Restoration Act of 2014, and not later than September 
                30 each year thereafter until 2018, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                House of Representatives a report on the pilot program.
                    ``(B) Elements.--Each report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            ``(i) The number of individuals that 
                        participated in the pilot program during the 
                        year preceding the submission of the report.
                            ``(ii) The number of individuals that 
                        successfully completed the pilot program during 
                        the year preceding the submission of the 
                        report.
                            ``(iii) The degree to which pilot program 
                        participants and family members of pilot 
                        program participants were satisfied with the 
                        pilot program.
                            ``(iv) The interim findings and conclusions 
                        of the Secretary with respect to the success of 
                        the pilot program and recommendations for 
                        improvement.
            ``(2) Final report.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the 
                completion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                House of Representatives a final report on the pilot 
                program.
                    ``(B) Elements.--The final report required by 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            ``(i) A description of the pilot program.
                            ``(ii) An assessment of the utility of the 
                        activities under the pilot program in enhancing 
                        the rehabilitation, quality of life, and 
                        community reintegration of veterans with 
                        traumatic brain injury, including complex mild 
                        traumatic brain injury.
                            ``(iii) Such recommendations as the 
                        Secretary considers appropriate regarding 
                        improving the pilot program.''.
    (d) Modification of Definitions.--
            (1) Community-based brain injury residential rehabilitative 
        care services.--Such section is further amended--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking ``assisted 
                living''and inserting ``community-based brain injury 
                residential rehabilitative care'';
                    (B) in subsection (c), in the subsection heading, 
                by striking ``Assisted Living'' and inserting 
                ``Community-based Brain Injury Residential 
                Rehabilitative Care'';
                    (C) by striking ``assisted living'' each place it 
                appears, and inserting ``community-based brain injury 
                rehabilitative care''; and
                    (D) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``and 
                personal care'' and inserting ``rehabilitation, and 
                personal care''.
            (2) Eligible veteran.--Subsection (f)(3) of such section is 
        amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(E) has a traumatic brain injury that is 
                classified as complex-mild to severe.''.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for the Department of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 
2015 $46,000,000 to carry out the pilot program under section 1705 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
110-181; 38 U.S.C. 1710C note), as amended by this section. The amount 
so authorized to be appropriated shall be available for obligation for 
the three-year period beginning on the date that is one year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 2014.

SEC. 312. PROGRAM ON HEALTH PROMOTION FOR OVERWEIGHT AND OBESE VETERANS 
              THROUGH SUPPORT OF FITNESS CENTER MEMBERSHIPS.

    (a) Program Required.--Commencing not later than 180 days after the 
date on which this section takes effect, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall, through the National Center for Preventive Health, carry 
out a program to assess the feasibility and advisability of promoting 
health in covered veterans, including achieving a healthy weight and 
reducing risks of chronic disease, through support for fitness center 
membership.
    (b) Covered Veterans.--For purposes of this section, a covered 
veteran is any veteran who--
            (1) is enrolled in the system of annual patient enrollment 
        established and operated by the Secretary under section 1705 of 
        title 38, United States Code;
            (2) is determined by a clinician of the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs to be overweight or obese as of the date of 
        the commencement of the program; and
            (3) resides in a location that is more than 15 minutes 
        driving distance from a fitness center at a facility of the 
        Department that would otherwise be available to the veteran for 
        at least eight hours per day during five or more days per week.
    (c) Duration of Program.--The program shall be carried out during 
the two-year period beginning on the date of the commencement of the 
program.
    (d) Locations.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the program, the Secretary 
        shall select--
                    (A) not less than five medical centers of the 
                Department at which the Secretary shall cover the full 
                reasonable cost of a fitness center membership for 
                covered veterans within the catchment area of such 
                centers; and
                    (B) not less than five medical centers of the 
                Department at which the Secretary shall cover half the 
                reasonable cost of a fitness center membership for 
                covered veterans within the catchment area of such 
                centers.
            (2) Considerations.--In selecting locations for the 
        program, the Secretary shall consider the feasibility and 
        advisability of selecting locations in the following areas:
                    (A) Rural areas.
                    (B) Areas that are not in close proximity to an 
                active duty military installation.
                    (C) Areas in different geographic locations.
    (e) Participation.--
            (1) Maximum number of participants.--The number of covered 
        veterans who may participate in the program at each location 
        selected under subsection (d) may not exceed 100.
            (2) Voluntary participation.--The participation of a 
        covered veteran in the program shall be at the election of the 
        covered veteran in consultation with a clinician of the 
        Department.
    (f) Membership Payment.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), in 
        carrying out the program, the Secretary shall pay the 
        following:
                    (A) The full reasonable cost of a fitness center 
                membership for covered veterans within the catchment 
                area of centers selected under subsection (d)(1)(A) who 
                are participating in the program.
                    (B) Half the reasonable cost of a fitness center 
                membership for covered veterans within the catchment 
                area of centers selected under subsection (d)(1)(B) who 
                are participating in the program.
            (2) Limitation.--Payment for a fitness center membership of 
        a covered veteran may not exceed $50 per month of membership.
    (g) Reports.--
            (1)  Periodic reports.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        date of the commencement of the program and not less frequently 
        than once every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary shall submit 
        to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        a report on activities carried out to implement the program, 
        including outreach activities to veterans and community 
        organizations.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the completion of the program, the Secretary shall submit to 
        the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        a report on the program detailing--
                    (A) the findings and conclusions of the Secretary 
                as a result of the program; and
                    (B) recommendations for the continuation or 
                expansion of the program.
    (h) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 313. PROGRAM ON HEALTH PROMOTION FOR VETERANS THROUGH 
              ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS FITNESS 
              FACILITIES.

    (a) Program Required.--Commencing not later than 180 days after the 
date on which this section takes effect, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall carry out a program to assess the feasibility and 
advisability of promoting health in covered veterans, including 
achieving a healthy weight, through establishment of Department of 
Veterans Affairs fitness facilities.
    (b) Covered Veterans.--For purposes of this section, a covered 
veteran is any veteran who is enrolled in the system of annual patient 
enrollment established and operated by the Secretary under section 1705 
of title 38, United States Code.
    (c) Duration of Program.--The program shall be carried out during 
the three-year period beginning on the date of the commencement of the 
program.
    (d) Locations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out the program 
        by establishing fitness facilities in Department facilities as 
        follows:
                    (A) In not fewer than five Department of Veterans 
                Affairs medical centers selected by the Secretary for 
                purposes of the program.
                    (B) In not fewer than five outpatient clinics of 
                the Department selected by the Secretary for purposes 
                of the program.
            (2) Considerations.--In selecting locations for the 
        program, the Secretary shall consider the feasibility and 
        advisability of selecting locations in the following areas:
                    (A) Rural areas.
                    (B) Areas that are not in close proximity to an 
                active duty military installation.
                    (C) Areas in different geographic locations.
    (e) Limitation on Expenses.--In establishing and supporting a 
fitness facility in a facility of the Department under the program, the 
Secretary may expend amounts as follows:
            (1) For establishment and support of a fitness facility in 
        a Department of Veterans Affairs medical center, not more than 
        $60,000.
            (2) For establishment and support of a fitness facility in 
        an outpatient clinic of the Department, not more than $40,000.
    (f) Repurposing of Physical Space and Purchases of Equipment.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to subsection (e), the Secretary 
        may, in carrying out the program, repurpose existing physical 
        space of the Department and purchase such fitness equipment and 
        supplies as the Secretary considers appropriate for purposes of 
        the program.
            (2) Repurposing exception.--Existing physical space used 
        for the direct delivery of health care to patients may not be 
        repurposed under paragraph (1).
    (g) Prohibition on Assessment of User Fees.--The Secretary may not 
assess a fee upon a covered veteran for use of a fitness facility 
established under the program.
    (h) Voluntary Participation.--The participation of a covered 
veteran in the program shall be at the election of the covered veteran.
    (i) Reports.--
            (1) Periodic reports.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        date of the commencement of the program and not less frequently 
        than once every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary shall submit 
        to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        a report on activities carried out to implement the program, 
        including outreach activities to veterans and community 
        organizations.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the completion of the program, the Secretary shall submit to 
        the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        a report on the program detailing--
                    (A) the findings and conclusions of the Secretary 
                as a result of the program; and
                    (B) recommendations for the continuation or 
                expansion of the program.
    (j) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

SEC. 321. EXTENSION OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS HEALTH 
              PROFESSIONAL SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM.

    Section 7619 is amended by striking ``December 31, 2014'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2019''.

SEC. 322. EXPANSION OF AVAILABILITY OF PROSTHETIC AND ORTHOTIC CARE FOR 
              VETERANS.

    (a) Establishment or Expansion of Advanced Degree Programs To 
Expand Availability of Provision of Care.--The Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall work with institutions of higher education to develop 
partnerships for the establishment or expansion of programs of advanced 
degrees in prosthetics and orthotics in order to improve and enhance 
the availability of high quality prosthetic and orthotic care for 
veterans.
    (b) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report setting forth a plan for 
carrying out subsection (a). The Secretary shall develop the plan in 
consultation with veterans service organizations, institutions of 
higher education with accredited degree programs in prosthetics and 
orthotics, and representatives of the prosthetics and orthotics field.
    (c) Funding.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--There is hereby 
        authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 for the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs, $10,000,000 to carry out this 
        section.
            (2) Availability.--The amount authorized to be appropriated 
        by paragraph (1) shall remain available for expenditure until 
        September 30, 2017.

SEC. 323. CONTRACTING FOR HEALTH CARE.

    (a) Use of Capitation-based Resource Allocation in Entry Into 
Contracts.--In entering into contracts for the furnishing of health 
care services under the laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs (including under this title and the amendments made by this 
title), the Secretary shall use the capitation-based resource 
allocation model of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (b) Priority for Contracts With Certain Entities.--In entering into 
contracts for the furnishing of health care services under the laws 
administered by the Secretary, the Secretary shall afford a priority 
for entry into contracts for Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) 
and Community Health Centers (CHCs), whenever appropriate.
    (c) Best Practices.--The Secretary shall modify the guidance of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs on contracts for health care services in 
order to provide for the incorporation into such contracts of 
standardized requirements for such best practices under such contracts, 
including the following:
            (1) Requirements that contracts provide the Department on a 
        regular basis information on scheduling and appearance for 
        appointments for health care on per-patient basis.
            (2) Such other best practices requirements as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
    (d) Federally Qualified Health Center Defined.--In this section the 
term ``Federally Qualified Health Center'' means a Federally-qualified 
health center as defined in section 1905(l)(2)(B) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(l)(2)(B)).

SEC. 324. LIMITATION ON EXPANSION OF DIALYSIS PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) Limitation.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall not expand 
the dialysis pilot program to, or expand the capacity to provide 
additional dialysis care at, any facility owned or leased by the 
Department that is not an initial facility until after the date that--
            (1) the Secretary has implemented the dialysis pilot 
        program at each initial facility for a period of not less than 
        two years;
            (2) an independent analysis of the dialysis pilot program 
        has been conducted at each initial facility, including a 
        consideration and comparison of factors including--
                    (A) the ability of veterans to access care under 
                the dialysis pilot program;
                    (B) the quality of care provided under the dialysis 
                pilot program; and
                    (C) the satisfaction of veterans who have received 
                treatment under the dialysis pilot program; and
            (3) the report required by subsection (b) has been 
        submitted.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
completion of the independent analysis required by subsection (a)(2), 
the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that--
            (1) includes the results of that independent analysis; and
            (2) addresses any recommendations with respect to the 
        dialysis pilot program provided in a report prepared by the 
        Government Accountability Office.
    (c) Utilization of Existing Dialysis Resources.--In order to 
increase the access of veterans to dialysis care and decrease the 
travel time of such veterans to receive such care, the Secretary shall 
fully utilize existing dialysis resources of the Department, including 
any community dialysis provider with which the Department has entered 
into a contract or agreement for the provision of such care.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Dialysis pilot program.--The term ``dialysis pilot 
        program'' means the pilot demonstration program established by 
        the Secretary in 2009 to provide dialysis care to patients at 
        certain outpatient facilities operated by the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs.
            (2) Initial facility.--The term ``initial facility'' means 
        one of the four outpatient facilities identified by the 
        Secretary to participate in the dialysis pilot program prior to 
        the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (e) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 325. REQUIREMENT FOR DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS POLICY ON 
              REPORTING CASES OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES AT FACILITIES OF 
              THE DEPARTMENT.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 73 is amended by adding 
at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7330B. Reporting of infectious diseases
    ``(a) Reporting.--The Secretary shall ensure that the Department 
has in effect an up-to-date policy on reporting a notifiable infectious 
disease diagnosed at a facility under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
in accordance with the provisions of State and local law in effect 
where such facility is located.
    ``(b) Notifiable Infectious Disease.--For purposes of this section, 
a notifiable infectious disease is any infectious disease that is--
            ``(1) on the list of nationally notifiable diseases 
        published by the Council of State and Territorial 
        Epidemiologists and the Centers for Disease Control and 
        Prevention; or
            ``(2) covered by a provision of law of a State that 
        requires the reporting of infectious diseases.
    ``(c) Performance Measures.--The Secretary shall develop 
performance measures to assess whether and to what degree the directors 
of Veterans Integrated Service Networks and Department medical centers 
are complying with the policy required by subsection (a).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 73 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
7330A the following new item:

``7330B. Reporting of infectious diseases.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 326. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF THE VETERANS INTEGRATED SERVICE 
              NETWORKS AND MEDICAL CENTERS OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS.

    (a) Contract.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
        seek to enter into a contract with an independent third-party 
        to perform the services covered by this section.
            (2) Timing.--The Secretary shall seek to enter into the 
        contract described in paragraph (1) not later than 540 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Independent Study.--
            (1) In general.--Under a contract between the Secretary and 
        an independent third-party under this section, the third party 
        shall carry out a study--
                    (A) to assess the organizational structures of 
                medical centers of the Department of Veterans Affairs; 
                and
                    (B) to improve succession planning among key 
                leadership roles at Veterans Integrated Service 
                Networks and medical centers of the Department.
            (2) Matters studied and proposed.--In carrying out the 
        study, the third party shall--
                    (A) assess whether the organizational structure of 
                the medical centers of the Department is effective for 
                the furnishing of medical services, addressing issues 
                that arise regarding the furnishing of medical 
                services, and addressing standard business operations;
                    (B) propose one organizational chart for Department 
                medical centers with a common set of base position 
                descriptions;
                    (C) propose a base set of medical positions that 
                should be filled to ensure that the health care 
                provided to veterans by the Department is of good 
                quality; and
                    (D) identify which key leadership positions at 
                Veterans Integrated Service Networks and Department 
                medical centers should have succession plans and 
                propose how to implement such plans.
            (3) Timing.--The third party shall complete the study under 
        this section not later than 270 days after entering into the 
        contract described in subsection (a).
    (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which the 
third party completes the study under this section, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report 
on the results of such study.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 327. REQUIREMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH NEXT UPDATE OF CURRENT 
              STRATEGIC PLAN FOR OFFICE OF RURAL HEALTH OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The first update of the Strategic Plan 
        Refresh for Fiscal Years 2012 through 2014 of the Office of 
        Rural Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, whether an update or refresh 
        of such Strategic Plan Refresh or a strategic plan to supersede 
        such Strategic Plan Refresh, shall be prepared in accordance 
        with this section.
            (2) Consultation.--The Director of the Office of Rural 
        Health shall prepare the update in consultation with the 
        following:
                    (A) The Director of the Health Care Retention and 
                Recruitment Office of the Department.
                    (B) The Director of the Office of Quality and 
                Performance of the Department.
                    (C) The Director of the Office of Care Coordination 
                Services of the Department.
    (b) Elements.--The update described in subsection (a) shall 
include, for the period covered by the update, the following:
            (1) Goals and objectives for the recruitment and retention 
        by the Veterans Health Administration of health care personnel 
        in rural areas.
            (2) Goals and objectives for ensuring timeliness and 
        improving quality in the delivery of health care services by 
        the Veterans Health Administration in rural areas through 
        contract and fee-basis providers.
            (3) Goals and objectives for the implementation, expansion, 
        and enhanced use of telemedicine services by the Veterans 
        Health Administration in rural areas, including through 
        coordination with other appropriate offices of the Department.
            (4) Goals and objectives for ensuring the full and 
        effective use of mobile outpatient clinics by the Veterans 
        Health Administration for the provision of health care services 
        in rural areas, including goals and objectives for the use of 
        such clinics on a fully mobile basis and for encouraging health 
        care providers who provide services through such clinics to do 
        so in rural areas.
            (5) Procedures for soliciting from each Veterans Health 
        Administration facility that serves a rural area the following:
                    (A) A statement of the clinical capacity of such 
                facility.
                    (B) The procedures of such facility in the event of 
                a medical, surgical, or mental health emergency outside 
                the scope of the clinical capacity of such facility.
                    (C) The procedures and mechanisms of such facility 
                for the provision and coordination of health care for 
                women veterans, including procedures and mechanisms for 
                coordination with local hospitals and health care 
                facilities, oversight of primary care and fee-basis 
                care, and management of specialty care.
            (6) Goals and objectives for the modification of the 
        funding allocation mechanisms of the Office of Rural Health in 
        order to ensure that the Office distributes funds to components 
        of the Department to best achieve the goals and objectives of 
        the Office and in a timely manner.
            (7) Goals and objectives for the coordination of, and 
        sharing of resources with respect to, the provision of health 
        care services to veterans in rural areas between the Department 
        of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense, the Indian 
        Health Service of the Department of Health and Human Services, 
        and other Federal agencies, as appropriate and prudent.
            (8) Specific milestones for the achievement of the goals 
        and objectives developed for the update.
            (9) Procedures for ensuring the effective implementation of 
        the update.
    (c) Transmittal to Congress.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the issuance of the update described in subsection (a), the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall transmit the update to Congress, 
together with such comments and recommendations in connection with the 
update as the Secretary considers appropriate.

SEC. 328. REPORT ON PROVISION OF TELEMEDICINE SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
following:
            (1) Issues that may be impeding the provision by the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs of telemedicine services for 
        veterans, including the following:
                    (A) Statutory or regulatory restrictions.
                    (B) Licensure or credentialing issues for any 
                provider practicing telemedicine with veterans who live 
                in a different State than the provider.
                    (C) Limited broadband access in rural areas.
                    (D) Limited information technology resources or 
                capabilities.
                    (E) Long distances veterans must travel to access a 
                facility or clinic with telemedicine capabilities.
                    (F) Insufficient liability protection for 
                providers.
                    (G) Reimbursement issues faced by providers.
                    (H) Travel limitations for providers that are 
                unaffiliated with the Department and are participating 
                or seeking to participate in a telemedicine program of 
                the Department.
            (2) Actions taken to address the issues identified in 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) An update on efforts by the Department to carry out the 
        initiative of teleconsultation for the provision of remote 
        mental health and traumatic brain injury assessments required 
        by section 1709A of title 38, United States Code.
            (4) An update on efforts by the Department to offer 
        training opportunities in telemedicine to medical residents, as 
        required by section 108(b) of the Janey Ensminger Act (Public 
        Law 112-154; 38 U.S.C. 7406 note).
            (5) An update on efforts by the Department to, in 
        partnership with primary care providers, install video cameras 
        and instruments to monitor weight, blood pressure, and other 
        vital statistics in the homes of patients.
    (b) Telemedicine Defined.--In this section, the term 
``telemedicine'' means the use by a health care provider of 
telecommunications to assist in the diagnosis or treatment of a 
patient's medical condition.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 329. DESIGNATION OF CORPORAL MICHAEL J. CRESCENZ DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL CENTER.

    (a) Designation.--The medical center of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs located at 3900 Woodland Avenue in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
shall after the date of the enactment of this Act be known and 
designated as the ``Corporal Michael J. Crescenz Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
document, paper, or other record of the United States to the medical 
center referred to in subsection (a) shall be considered to be a 
reference to the Corporal Michael J. Crescenz Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center.

           Subtitle C--Complementary and Alternative Medicine

SEC. 331. EXPANSION OF RESEARCH AND EDUCATION ON AND DELIVERY OF 
              COMPLEMENTARY AND ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE TO VETERANS.

    (a) Development of Plan To Expand Research, Education, and 
Delivery.--Not later than six months after the effective date specified 
in subsection (f), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall develop a 
plan to expand materially and substantially the scope of research and 
education on, and delivery and integration of, complementary and 
alternative medicine services into the health care services provided to 
veterans.
    (b) Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall provide 
for the following:
            (1) Research on the following:
                    (A) The comparative effectiveness of various 
                complementary and alternative medicine therapies.
                    (B) Approaches to integrating complementary and 
                alternative medicine services into other health care 
                services provided by the Department.
            (2) Education and training for health care professionals of 
        the Department on the following:
                    (A) Complementary and alternative medicine services 
                selected by the Secretary for purposes of the plan.
                    (B) Appropriate uses of such services.
                    (C) Integration of such services into the delivery 
                of health care to veterans.
            (3) Research, education, and clinical activities on 
        complementary and alternative medicine at centers of innovation 
        at Department medical centers.
            (4) Identification or development of metrics and outcome 
        measures to evaluate the provision and integration of 
        complementary and alternative medicine services into the 
        delivery of health care to veterans.
            (5) Integration and delivery of complementary and 
        alternative medicine services with other health care services 
        provided by the Department.
    (c) Consultation.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
        Secretary shall consult with the following:
                    (A) The Director of the National Center on 
                Complementary and Alternative Medicine of the National 
                Institutes of Health.
                    (B) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
                    (C) Institutions of higher education, private 
                research institutes, and individual researchers with 
                extensive experience in complementary and alternative 
                medicine and the integration of complementary and 
                alternative medicine practices into the delivery of 
                health care.
                    (D) Nationally recognized providers of 
                complementary and alternative medicine.
                    (E) Such other officials, entities, and individuals 
                with expertise on complementary and alternative 
                medicine as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Scope of consultation.--The Secretary shall undertake 
        consultation under paragraph (1) in carrying out subsection (a) 
        with respect to the following:
                    (A) To develop the plan.
                    (B) To identify specific complementary and 
                alternative medicine practices that, on the basis of 
                research findings or promising clinical interventions, 
                are appropriate to include as services to veterans.
                    (C) To identify barriers to the effective provision 
                and integration of complementary and alternative 
                medicine services into the delivery of health care to 
                veterans, and to identify mechanisms for overcoming 
                such barriers.
    (d) Funding.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
    (e) Complementary and Alternative Medicine Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``complementary and alternative medicine'' shall have 
the meaning given that term in regulations the Secretary shall 
prescribe for purposes of this section, which shall, to the degree 
practicable, be consistent with the meaning given such term by the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services.
    (f) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 332. PROGRAM ON INTEGRATION OF COMPLEMENTARY AND ALTERNATIVE 
              MEDICINE WITHIN DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL 
              CENTERS.

    (a) Program Required.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall--
            (1) carry out, through the Office of Patient Centered Care 
        and Cultural Transformation of the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs, a program to assess the feasibility and advisability 
        of integrating the delivery of complementary and alternative 
        medicine services selected by the Secretary with other health 
        care services provided by the Department for veterans with 
        mental health conditions, chronic pain conditions, other 
        chronic conditions, and such other conditions as the Secretary 
        determines appropriate; and
            (2) in developing the program, identify and resolve 
        barriers to the provision of complementary and alternative 
        medicine services selected by the Secretary and the integration 
        of those services with other health care services provided by 
        the Department.
    (b) Duration of Program.--The program shall be carried out during 
the three-year period beginning on the effective date specified in 
subsection (j).
    (c) Locations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out the program 
        at not fewer than 15 separate Department medical centers.
            (2) Polytrauma centers.--Not less than two of the medical 
        centers designated under paragraph (1) shall be located at 
        polytrauma rehabilitation centers of the Department.
            (3) Selection of locations.--In carrying out the program, 
        the Secretary shall select locations that include the following 
        areas:
                    (A) Rural areas.
                    (B) Areas that are not in close proximity to an 
                active duty military installation.
                    (C) Areas representing different geographic 
                locations, such as census tracts established by the 
                Bureau of the Census.
    (d) Provision of Services.--Under the program, the Secretary shall 
provide covered services to covered veterans by integrating 
complementary and alternative medicine services with other services 
provided by the Department at the medical centers designated under 
subsection (c)(1).
    (e) Covered Veterans.--For purposes of the program, a covered 
veteran is any veteran who--
            (1) has a mental health condition diagnosed by a clinician 
        of the Department;
            (2) experiences chronic pain; or
            (3) has a chronic condition being treated by a clinician of 
        the Department.
    (f) Covered Services.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of the program, covered 
        services are services consisting of complementary and 
        alternative medicine as selected by the Secretary.
            (2) Administration of services.--Covered services shall be 
        administered under the program as follows:
                    (A) Covered services shall be administered by 
                clinicians employed by the Secretary for purposes of 
                this section who, to the extent practicable, shall 
                provide services consisting of complementary and 
                alternative medicine, including those clinicians who 
                solely provide such services.
                    (B) Covered services shall be included as part of 
                the Patient Aligned Care Teams initiative of the Office 
                of Patient Care Services, Primary Care Program Office, 
                in coordination with the Office of Patient Centered 
                Care and Cultural Transformation.
                    (C) Covered services shall be made available to 
                both--
                            (i) covered veterans with mental health 
                        conditions, pain conditions, or chronic 
                        conditions described in subsection (e) who have 
                        received conventional treatments from the 
                        Department for such conditions; and
                            (ii) covered veterans with mental health 
                        conditions, pain conditions, or chronic 
                        conditions described in subsection (e) who have 
                        not received conventional treatments from the 
                        Department for such conditions.
    (g) Voluntary Participation.--The participation of a veteran in the 
program shall be at the election of the veteran and in consultation 
with a clinician of the Department.
    (h) Reports to Congress.--
            (1) Quarterly reports.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        date of the commencement of the program and not less frequently 
        than once every 90 days thereafter for the duration of the 
        program, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' 
        Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the efforts 
        of the Secretary to carry out the program, including a 
        description of the outreach conducted by the Secretary to 
        veterans and community organizations to inform such 
        organizations about the program.
            (2) Final report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                completion of the program, the Secretary shall submit 
                to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and 
                the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives a report on the program.
                    (B) Contents.--The report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) The findings and conclusions of the 
                        Secretary with respect to the program, 
                        including with respect to--
                                    (I) the utilization and efficacy of 
                                the complementary and alternative 
                                medicine services established under the 
                                program;
                                    (II) an assessment of the benefit 
                                of the program to covered veterans in 
                                mental health diagnoses, pain 
                                management, and treatment of chronic 
                                illness; and
                                    (III) the comparative effectiveness 
                                of various complementary and 
                                alternative medicine therapies.
                            (ii) Barriers identified under subsection 
                        (a)(2) that were not resolved.
                            (iii) Such recommendations for the 
                        continuation or expansion of the program as the 
                        Secretary considers appropriate.
    (i) Complementary and Alternative Medicine Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``complementary and alternative medicine'' shall have 
the meaning given that term in section 331(e) of this Act.
    (j) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 333. STUDIES OF BARRIERS ENCOUNTERED BY VETERANS IN RECEIVING, AND 
              ADMINISTRATORS AND CLINICIANS IN PROVIDING, COMPLEMENTARY 
              AND ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE SERVICES FURNISHED BY THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Studies Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
        conduct comprehensive studies of the barriers encountered by 
        veterans in receiving, and administrators and clinicians in 
        providing, complementary and alternative medicine services 
        furnished by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
            (2) Studies conducted.--
                    (A) Veterans.--In conducting the study of veterans, 
                the Secretary shall--
                            (i) survey veterans who seek or receive 
                        hospital care or medical services furnished by 
                        the Department, as well as veterans who do not 
                        seek or receive such care or services;
                            (ii) administer the survey to a 
                        representative sample of veterans from each 
                        Veterans Integrated Service Network; and
                            (iii) ensure that the sample of veterans 
                        surveyed is of sufficient size for the study 
                        results to be statistically significant.
                    (B) Administrators and clinicians.--In conducting 
                the study of clinicians and administrators, the 
                Secretary shall--
                            (i) survey administrators of the Department 
                        who are involved in the provision of health 
                        care services;
                            (ii) survey clinicians that have provided 
                        complementary and alternative medicine services 
                        through the program established under section 
                        332 of this Act, after those clinicians have 
                        provided those services through such program 
                        for at least 90 days; and
                            (iii) administer the survey to 
                        administrators under clause (i)--
                                    (I) before the introduction of 
                                complementary and alternative medicine 
                                services through such program; and
                                    (II) not earlier than 90 days after 
                                the introduction of complementary and 
                                alternative medicine services through 
                                such program.
    (b) Elements of Studies.--
            (1) Veterans.--In conducting the study of veterans required 
        by subsection (a), the Secretary shall study the following:
                    (A) The perceived barriers associated with 
                obtaining complementary and alternative medicine 
                services from the Department.
                    (B) The satisfaction of veterans with complementary 
                and alternative medicine services in primary care.
                    (C) The degree to which veterans are aware of 
                eligibility requirements for, and the scope of services 
                available under, complementary and alternative medicine 
                services furnished by the Department.
                    (D) The effectiveness of outreach to veterans on 
                the availability of complementary and alternative 
                medicine for veterans.
                    (E) Such other barriers as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (2) Administrators and clinicians.--In conducting the study 
        of administrators and clinicians required by subsection (a), 
        the Secretary shall study the following:
                    (A) The extent of the integration of complementary 
                and alternative medicine services within the services 
                provided by the Department.
                    (B) The perception by administrators and clinicians 
                of the structural and attitudinal barriers to the 
                delivery of high quality complementary and alternative 
                medicine services by the Department.
                    (C) Strategies that have been used to reduce or 
                eliminate such barriers and the results of such 
                strategies.
                    (D) The satisfaction of administrators and 
                clinicians regarding the integration of complementary 
                and alternative medicine services within the services 
                provided by the Department.
                    (E) The perception by administrators and clinicians 
                of the value of specific complementary and alternative 
                medicine services for inpatient and outpatient veteran 
                populations.
    (c) Discharge by Contract.--The Secretary shall enter into a 
contract with a qualified independent entity or organization to carry 
out the studies required by this section.
    (d) Mandatory Review of Data by the National Research Advisory 
Council.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall ensure that the head 
        of the National Research Advisory Council reviews the results 
        of the studies conducted under this section.
            (2) Submittal of findings.--The head of the National 
        Research Advisory Council shall submit findings with respect to 
        the studies to the Under Secretary for Health and to other 
        pertinent program offices within the Department with 
        responsibilities relating to health care services for veterans.
    (e) Reports.--
            (1) Report on implementation.--Not later than one year 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        shall submit to Congress a report on the status of the 
        implementation of this section.
            (2) Report on study.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 45 days after the 
                date of the completion of the study, the Secretary 
                shall submit to Congress a report on the study required 
                by subsection (a).
                    (B) Contents.--The report required by subparagraph 
                (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) Recommendations for such administrative 
                        and legislative proposals and actions as the 
                        Secretary considers appropriate.
                            (ii) The findings of the head of the 
                        National Research Advisory Council and of the 
                        Under Secretary for Health.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2015 for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, $2,000,000 to carry out this section.
    (g) Complementary and Alternative Medicine Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``complementary and alternative medicine'' shall have 
the meaning given that term in section 331(e) of this Act.

SEC. 334. PROGRAM ON USE OF WELLNESS PROGRAMS AS COMPLEMENTARY APPROACH 
              TO MENTAL HEALTH CARE FOR VETERANS AND FAMILY MEMBERS OF 
              VETERANS.

    (a) Program Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
        carry out a program through the award of grants to public or 
        private nonprofit entities to assess the feasibility and 
        advisability of using wellness programs to complement the 
        provision of mental health care to veterans and family members 
        eligible for counseling under section 1712A(a)(1)(C) of title 
        38, United States Code.
            (2) Matters to be addressed.--The program shall be carried 
        out so as to assess the following:
                    (A) Means of improving coordination between 
                Federal, State, local, and community providers of 
                health care in the provision of mental health care to 
                veterans and family members described in paragraph (1).
                    (B) Means of enhancing outreach, and coordination 
                of outreach, by and among providers of health care 
                referred to in subparagraph (A) on the mental health 
                care services available to veterans and family members 
                described in paragraph (1).
                    (C) Means of using wellness programs of providers 
                of health care referred to in subparagraph (A) as 
                complements to the provision by the Department of 
                Veterans Affairs of mental health care to veterans and 
                family members described in paragraph (1).
                    (D) Whether wellness programs described in 
                subparagraph (C) are effective in enhancing the quality 
                of life and well-being of veterans and family members 
                described in paragraph (1).
                    (E) Whether wellness programs described in 
                subparagraph (C) are effective in increasing the 
                adherence of veterans described in paragraph (1) to the 
                primary mental health services provided such veterans 
                by the Department.
                    (F) Whether wellness programs described in 
                subparagraph (C) have an impact on the sense of 
                wellbeing of veterans described in paragraph (1) who 
                receive primary mental health services from the 
                Department.
                    (G) Whether wellness programs described in 
                subparagraph (C) are effective in encouraging veterans 
                receiving health care from the Department to adopt a 
                more healthy lifestyle.
    (b) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the program for a 
period of three years beginning on the date that is one year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Locations.--The Secretary shall carry out the program at 
facilities of the Department providing mental health care services to 
veterans and family members described in subsection (a)(1).
    (d) Grant Proposals.--
            (1) In general.--A public or private nonprofit entity 
        seeking the award of a grant under this section shall submit an 
        application therefor to the Secretary in such form and in such 
        manner as the Secretary may require.
            (2) Application contents.--Each application submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A plan to coordinate activities under the 
                program, to the extent possible, with the Federal, 
                State, and local providers of services for veterans to 
                enhance the following:
                            (i) Awareness by veterans of benefits and 
                        health care services provided by the 
                        Department.
                            (ii) Outreach efforts to increase the use 
                        by veterans of services provided by the 
                        Department.
                            (iii) Educational efforts to inform 
                        veterans of the benefits of a healthy and 
                        active lifestyle.
                    (B) A statement of understanding from the entity 
                submitting the application that, if selected, such 
                entity will be required to report to the Secretary 
                periodically on standardized data and other performance 
                data necessary to evaluate individual outcomes and to 
                facilitate evaluations among entities participating in 
                the program.
                    (C) Other requirements that the Secretary may 
                prescribe.
    (e) Grant Uses.--
            (1) In general.--A public or private nonprofit entity 
        awarded a grant under this section shall use the award for 
        purposes prescribed by the Secretary.
            (2) Eligible veterans and family.--In carrying out the 
        purposes prescribed by the Secretary in paragraph (1), a public 
        or private nonprofit entity awarded a grant under this section 
        shall use the award to furnish services only to individuals 
        specified in section 1712A(a)(1)(C) of title 38, United States 
        Code.
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) Periodic reports.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of the commencement of the program, and every 180 
                days thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
                a report on the program.
                    (B) Report elements.--Each report required by 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) The findings and conclusions of the 
                        Secretary with respect to the program during 
                        the 180-day period preceding the report.
                            (ii) An assessment of the benefits of the 
                        program to veterans and their family members 
                        during the 180-day period preceding the report.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than 180 days after the end of 
        the program, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
        detailing the recommendations of the Secretary as to the 
        advisability of continuing or expanding the program.
    (g) Wellness Defined.--In this section, the term ``wellness'' has 
the meaning given that term in regulations prescribed by the Secretary.

                     Subtitle D--Mental Health Care

SEC. 341. INCLUSION OF MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONALS IN THE EDUCATION AND 
              TRAINING PROGRAM FOR HEALTH PERSONNEL OF THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--In carrying out the education and training program 
required under section 7302(a)(1) of title 38, United States Code, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall include education and training of 
marriage and family therapists and licensed professional mental health 
counselors.
    (b) Funding.--The Secretary shall apportion funding for the 
education and training program equally among the professions included 
in the program.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 342. EDUCATION PROGRAM AND PEER SUPPORT PROGRAM FOR FAMILY MEMBERS 
              AND CAREGIVERS OF VETERANS WITH MENTAL HEALTH DISORDERS.

    (a) Programs.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall establish an education program (in this section referred 
        to as the ``education program'') and a peer support program (in 
        this section referred to as the ``peer support program'') for 
        the education and training of family members and caregivers of 
        eligible veterans with mental health disorders.
            (2) Definitions.--In this section:
                    (A) Family member; caregiver.--The terms ``family 
                member'' and ``caregiver'' have the meaning given those 
                terms in section 1720G(d) of title 38, United States 
                Code.
                    (B) Eligible veteran.--The term ``eligible 
                veteran'' means a veteran who is enrolled in the health 
                care system established under section 1705(a) of title 
                38, United States Code.
    (b) Education Program.--
            (1) In general.--Under the education program, the Secretary 
        shall provide a course of education to family members and 
        caregivers of eligible veterans on matters relating to coping 
        with mental health disorders in veterans.
            (2) Duration.--
                    (A) In general.--The education program shall be 
                carried out during the four-year period beginning on 
                the date of the commencement of the education program.
                    (B) Authority for extension.--The Secretary may 
                extend the duration of the education program for an 
                additional four years.
            (3) Locations.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as required by subparagraph 
                (D), the Secretary shall carry out the education 
                program at the following facilities of the Department 
                of Veterans Affairs:
                            (i) Not less than 10 medical centers of the 
                        Department.
                            (ii) Not less than 10 clinics of the 
                        Department.
                            (iii) Not less than 10 Vet Centers (as 
                        defined in section 1712A(h) of title 38, United 
                        States Code).
                    (B) Solicitation of applications.--In selecting 
                locations for the education program, the Secretary 
                shall solicit applications from eligible facilities of 
                the Department that are interested in carrying out the 
                education program.
                    (C) Considerations.--In selecting locations for the 
                education program, the Secretary shall consider the 
                feasibility and advisability of selecting locations in 
                the following areas:
                            (i) Rural areas.
                            (ii) Areas that are not in close proximity 
                        to an active duty installation.
                            (iii) Areas in different geographic 
                        locations.
                    (D) Expansion of locations.--Not later than two 
                years after the date of the commencement of the 
                education program, the Secretary shall expand the 
                number of facilities at which the Secretary is carrying 
                out the education program to include the following:
                            (i) Not less than 10 additional medical 
                        centers of the Department.
                            (ii) Not less than 10 additional clinics of 
                        the Department.
                            (iii) Not less than 10 additional Vet 
                        Centers.
            (4) Contracts.--
                    (A) In general.--In carrying out the education 
                program, the Secretary shall enter into contracts with 
                qualified entities described in subparagraph (B) to 
                offer the course of education described in paragraph 
                (5) to family members and caregivers of eligible 
                veterans and covered veterans.
                    (B) Qualified entity described.--A qualified entity 
                described in this subparagraph is a non-profit entity 
                with experience in mental health education and 
                outreach, including work with children, teens, and 
                young adults, that--
                            (i) uses high quality, relevant, and age-
                        appropriate information in educational 
                        programming, materials, and coursework, 
                        including such programming, materials, and 
                        coursework for children, teens, and young 
                        adults; and
                            (ii) works with agencies, departments, 
                        nonprofit mental health organizations, early 
                        childhood educators, and mental health 
                        providers to develop educational programming, 
                        materials, and coursework.
                    (C) Priority.--In entering into contracts under 
                this paragraph, the Secretary shall give priority to 
                qualified entities that, to the maximum extent 
                practicable, use Internet technology for the delivery 
                of course content in an effort to expand the 
                availability of support services, especially in rural 
                areas.
            (5) Elements.--The course of education described in this 
        paragraph shall consist of not less than 10 weeks of education 
        and shall include the following:
                    (A) General education on different mental health 
                disorders, including information to improve 
                understanding of the experiences of individuals 
                suffering from those disorders.
                    (B) Techniques for handling crisis situations and 
                administering mental health first aid to individuals 
                suffering from mental health disorders.
                    (C) Techniques for coping with the stress of living 
                with someone with a mental health disorder.
                    (D) Information on additional services available 
                for family members and caregivers through the 
                Department or community organizations and providers 
                related to mental health disorders.
                    (E) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (6) Instructors.--
                    (A) Training.--Each instructor of the course of 
                education described in paragraph (5) shall maintain a 
                level of proficiency in the course of education as 
                determined by the Secretary, and shall submit proof of 
                that level of proficiency to the Secretary at such time 
                and in such manner as the Secretary determines 
                appropriate.
                    (B) Individuals who have completed the course as 
                instructors.--Commencing as of the date that is two 
                years after the date of the commencement of the 
                education program, any individual who has successfully 
                completed the course of education described in 
                paragraph (5) and has successfully completed such 
                additional training as is required for instructors 
                pursuant to subparagraph (A) may act as an instructor 
                in the course of education.
    (c) Peer Support Program.--
            (1) In general.--Under the peer support program, the 
        Secretary shall provide peer support to family members and 
        caregivers of eligible veterans on matters relating to coping 
        with mental health disorders in veterans.
            (2) Locations.--The Secretary shall provide peer support 
        under the peer support program at each location at which the 
        Secretary provides education under the education program.
            (3) Elements.--Peer support under the peer support program 
        shall consist of meetings in group settings between a peer 
        support coordinator under paragraph (4) and family members and 
        caregivers of eligible veterans on matters relating to coping 
        with mental health disorders in veterans. At each location, 
        those meetings shall be conducted not less often than twice 
        each calendar quarter.
            (4) Peer support coordinator.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the 
                director of each participating facility, may select an 
                individual who has successfully completed the course of 
                education described in subsection (b)(5) to serve as a 
                peer support coordinator for each such facility to 
                carry out the peer support program.
                    (B) Proficiency of instructors.--Each peer support 
                coordinator shall maintain a level of proficiency in 
                peer support as determined by the Secretary, and shall 
                submit proof of that level of proficiency to the 
                Secretary at such time and in such manner as the 
                Secretary determines appropriate.
    (d) Surveys.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall conduct a 
        comprehensive and statistically significant survey of the 
        satisfaction of individuals that have participated in the 
        course of education described in subsection (b)(5) and 
        individuals that have participated in the peer support program 
        that includes the following:
                    (A) The general satisfaction of those individuals 
                with the education and assistance provided in the 
                education program and the peer support program.
                    (B) The perceived effectiveness of the education 
                program and the peer support program in providing 
                education and assistance that is useful for those 
                individuals.
                    (C) The applicability of the education program and 
                the peer support program to the issues faced by those 
                individuals.
                    (D) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
                    (E) A representative sample of the information 
                required by subparagraphs (A) through (D) from each 
                Veterans Integrated Service Network that is 
                participating in the education program and the peer 
                support program.
            (2) Compilation of information.--The information compiled 
        as a result of the surveys required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        included in the annual report required by subsection (e)(1).
    (e) Reports.--
            (1) Annual report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
                date of the commencement of the education program and 
                not later than September 30 each year thereafter until 
                2017, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
                Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
                Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a 
                report on the education program and the peer support 
                program.
                    (B) Elements.--Each report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) The number of individuals that 
                        participated in the course of education 
                        described in subsection (b)(5) during the year 
                        preceding the submission of the report.
                            (ii) The number of individuals that 
                        participated in the peer support program during 
                        the year preceding the submission of the 
                        report.
                            (iii) A detailed analysis of the surveys 
                        conducted under subsection (d) with respect to 
                        the individuals described in clause (i) and 
                        (ii).
                            (iv) The degree to which veterans and 
                        family members and caregivers of veterans are 
                        aware of the eligibility requirements for 
                        enrollment in the education program and the 
                        peer support program.
                            (v) Any plans for expansion of the 
                        education program and the peer support program.
                            (vi) The interim findings and conclusions 
                        of the Secretary with respect to the success of 
                        the education program and the peer support 
                        program.
            (2) Final report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
                completion of the education program, the Secretary 
                shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
                the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
                the House of Representatives a report on the 
                feasibility and advisability of continuing the 
                education program and the peer support program.
                    (B) Elements.--The report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) A detailed analysis of the surveys 
                        conducted under subsection (d).
                            (ii) The feasibility and advisability of 
                        continuing the education program without 
                        entering into contracts for the course of 
                        education described in subsection (b)(5) and 
                        instead using peer support coordinators 
                        selected under subsection (c)(4) as instructors 
                        of the course of education.
                            (iii) The feasibility and advisability of 
                        expanding the education program and the peer 
                        support program.

SEC. 343. REPORT ON PROVISION OF MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES FOR FAMILIES OF 
              CERTAIN VETERANS AT FACILITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT.

    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report on the feasibility and 
advisability of providing services under the program established by 
section 304(a) of the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services 
Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 1712A note) at medical 
facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs.

SEC. 344. ANNUAL REPORT ON COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH PARTNERSHIP PILOT 
              PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and not later than September 30 each year 
thereafter until the completion of the pilot program described in 
subsection (b), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on that 
pilot program.
    (b) Pilot Program Described.--The pilot program described in this 
subsection is the pilot program conducted by the Veterans Health 
Administration to connect medical centers of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs with community-based mental health care providers and substance 
abuse treatment providers for the purpose of assisting in the treatment 
of veterans with mental health disorders, commonly known as the 
``Community Mental Health Partnership Pilot''.
    (c) Elements.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) The number of sites participating in the pilot program.
            (2) The number of individuals participating in the pilot 
        program at each site.
            (3) A detailed assessment of the effectiveness of, the 
        participation of veterans in, and the satisfaction of veterans 
        with the pilot program.
            (4) An analysis of barriers to the effectiveness of, the 
        participation of veterans in, and the satisfaction of veterans 
        with the pilot program.
            (5) A description of the plans of the Secretary to conduct 
        outreach and provide information to veterans and community 
        mental health providers with respect to the pilot program.
            (6) A description of any plans to expand the pilot program, 
        including plans that focus on the unique needs of veterans 
        located in rural areas.
            (7) An explanation of how the care provided under the pilot 
        program is consistent with the minimum clinical mental health 
        guidelines promulgated by the Veterans Health Administration, 
        including clinical guidelines contained in the Uniform Mental 
        Health Services Handbook of such Administration.

     Subtitle E--Dental Care Eligibility Expansion and Enhancement

SEC. 351. RESTORATIVE DENTAL SERVICES FOR VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1710(c) is amended--
            (1) in the second sentence--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
                clauses (i) and (ii), respectively; and
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;
            (2) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(c)'';
            (3) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(2) The Secretary''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) In addition to the dental services, treatment, and appliances 
authorized to be furnished by paragraph (2), the Secretary may furnish 
dental services and treatment, and dental appliances, needed to restore 
functioning in a veteran that is lost as a result of any services or 
treatment furnished under this subsection.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date that is one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 352. PILOT PROGRAM ON EXPANSION OF FURNISHING OF DENTAL CARE TO 
              ALL ENROLLED VETERANS.

    (a) Pilot Program Required.--Commencing not later than 540 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
advisability of furnishing dental care to veterans enrolled in the 
system of patient enrollment under section 1705 of title 38, United 
States Code, who are not eligible for dental services and treatment, 
and related dental appliances, under current authorities.
    (b) Duration of Pilot Program.--The pilot program shall be carried 
out during the three-year period beginning on the date of the 
commencement of the pilot program.
    (c) Locations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot 
        program at not fewer than 16 locations as follows:
                    (A) Four Department of Veterans Affairs medical 
                centers with an established dental clinic.
                    (B) Four Department medical centers with a current 
                contract for the furnishing of dental care.
                    (C) Four Community-Based Outpatient Clinics (CBOCs) 
                with space available for the furnishing of services and 
                treatment under the pilot program.
                    (D) Four facilities selected from among Federally 
                Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) and Indian Health 
                Service facilities with established dental clinics, of 
                which--
                            (i) at least one facility shall be such an 
                        Indian Health Service facility; and
                            (ii) any Indian Health Service facility so 
                        selected shall be selected in consultation with 
                        the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
            (2) Considerations.--In selecting locations for the pilot 
        program, the Secretary shall consider the feasibility and 
        advisability of selecting locations in each of the following:
                    (A) Rural areas.
                    (B) Areas that are not in close proximity to an 
                active duty military installation.
                    (C) Areas representing different geographic 
                locations, such as census tracts established by the 
                Bureau of Census.
    (d) Limitation on Number of Participating Veterans.--
            (1) In general.--The total number of eligible veterans who 
        may participate in the pilot program may not exceed 30,000.
            (2) Distribution of limitation.--In applying the limitation 
        in paragraph (1) to the pilot program, the Secretary shall 
        distribute the limitation across and among locations selected 
        for the pilot program in a manner that takes appropriate 
        account of the size and need of veterans for dental services at 
        each such location.
    (e) Scope of Services.--The dental services and treatment furnished 
to veterans under the pilot program shall be consistent with the dental 
services and treatment furnished by the Secretary to veterans with 
service-connected disabilities rated 100 percent disabling under the 
laws administered by the Secretary.
    (f) Voluntary Participation.--The participation of a veteran in the 
pilot program shall be at the election of the veteran.
    (g) Limitation on Amount of Services.--
            (1) In general.--The total amount the Secretary may expend 
        furnishing dental services and treatment to a veteran 
        participating in the pilot program during any one-year period 
        may not exceed such amount as the Secretary determines 
        appropriate. The amount so determined may not be less than 
        $1,000.
            (2) Consultation.--The Secretary shall make the 
        determination under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in consultation with the Director of the Indian 
                Health Service; and
                    (B) in consultation with the Director of the Health 
                Resources and Services Administration of the Department 
                of Health and Human Services if one or more Federally 
                Qualified Health Center is selected as a location for 
                the pilot program under subsection (c)(1)(D).
    (h) Copayments.--The Secretary may collect copayments for dental 
services and treatment furnished under the pilot program in accordance 
with authorities on the collection of copayments for medical care of 
veterans under chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code.
    (i) Program Administration.--
            (1) Notice to eligible veterans on pilot program.--In 
        carrying out the pilot program, the Secretary shall inform all 
        veterans eligible to participate in the pilot program of the 
        services and treatment available under the pilot program.
            (2) Contracts.--In carrying out the pilot program, the 
        Secretary may enter into contracts with appropriate entities 
        for the provision of dental services and treatment under the 
        pilot program. Each such contract shall specify performance 
        standards and metrics and processes for ensuring compliance of 
        the contractor concerned with such performance standards.
    (j) Reports.--
            (1) Preliminary reports.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than each of 540 days 
                and three years after the date of the commencement of 
                the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives a report on the pilot program.
                    (B) Contents.--Each report under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include the following:
                            (i) A description of the implementation and 
                        operation of the pilot program.
                            (ii) The number of veterans receiving 
                        services and treatment under the pilot program, 
                        and a description of the dental services and 
                        treatment furnished to such veterans.
                            (iii) An analysis of the costs and benefits 
                        of the pilot program, including a comparison of 
                        costs and benefits by location type.
                            (iv) An assessment of the impact of the 
                        pilot program on medical care, wellness, 
                        employability, and perceived quality of life of 
                        veterans.
                            (v) The current findings and conclusions of 
                        the Secretary with respect to the pilot 
                        program.
                            (vi) Such recommendations for the 
                        continuation or expansion of the pilot program 
                        as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Final report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                completion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                House of Representatives a report on the pilot program.
                    (B) Contents.--The report under subparagraph (A) 
                shall include the following:
                            (i) The findings and conclusions of the 
                        Secretary with respect to the pilot program.
                            (ii) Such recommendations for the 
                        continuation or expansion of the pilot program 
                        as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (k) Federally Qualified Health Center Defined.--In this section the 
term ``Federally Qualified Health Center'' means a Federally-qualified 
health center as defined in section 1905(l)(2)(B) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(l)(2)(B)).
    (l) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 353. PROGRAM ON EDUCATION TO PROMOTE DENTAL HEALTH IN VETERANS.

    (a) Program Required.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
        carry out a program of education to promote dental health for 
        veterans who are enrolled in the system of patient enrollment 
        of the Department of Veterans Affairs under section 1705 of 
        title 38, United States Code.
            (2) Construction.--Nothing in the program shall be deemed 
        to alter or revise the eligibility of any veteran for dental 
        care under the laws administered by the Secretary.
    (b) Elements.--The program required by subsection (a) shall provide 
education for veterans on the following:
            (1) The association between dental health and overall 
        health and well-being.
            (2) Proper techniques for dental care.
            (3) Signs and symptoms of commonly occurring dental 
        conditions.
            (4) Treatment options for commonly occurring dental issues.
            (5) Options for obtaining access to dental care, including 
        information on eligibility for dental care through the 
        Department and on purchasing private dental insurance.
            (6) Available and accessible options for obtaining low or 
        no-cost dental care, including through dental schools and 
        Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs).
            (7) Such other matters relating to dental health as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Delivery of Educational Materials.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall provide educational 
        materials to veterans under the program required by subsection 
        (a) through a variety of mechanisms, including the following:
                    (A) The availability and distribution of print 
                materials at Department facilities (including at 
                medical centers, clinics, Vet Centers, and readjustment 
                counseling centers) and to providers (including members 
                of Patient Aligned Care Teams).
                    (B) The availability and distribution of materials 
                over the Internet, including through webinars and My 
                Health eVet.
                    (C) Presentations of information, including both 
                small group and large group presentations.
            (2) Selection of mechanisms.--In selecting mechanisms for 
        purposes of this subsection, the Secretary shall select 
        mechanisms designed to maximize the number of veterans who 
        receive education under the program.
    (d) Federally Qualified Health Center Defined.--In this section the 
term ``Federally Qualified Health Center'' means a Federally-qualified 
health center as defined in section 1905(l)(2)(B) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(l)(2)(B)).
    (e) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 354. INFORMATION ON DENTAL SERVICES FOR INCLUSION IN ELECTRONIC 
              MEDICAL RECORDS UNDER DENTAL INSURANCE PILOT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Commencing not later than 540 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
expand the dental insurance pilot program established by section 17.169 
of title 38, Code of Federal Regulations, to establish a mechanism by 
which private sector dental care providers shall forward to the 
Department of Veterans Affairs information on dental care furnished to 
individuals under the pilot program for inclusion in the electronic 
medical records of the Department with respect to such individuals.
    (b) Construction With Current Pilot Program Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section shall be construed 
        to revise eligibility for participation in, or the locations 
        of, the pilot program referred to in subsection (a).
            (2) Duration.--The Secretary may continue the pilot program 
        for two years in addition to the duration otherwise provided 
        for the pilot program in section 17.169 of title 38, Code of 
        Federal Regulations, if the Secretary determines that the 
        continuation is needed to assess the mechanism required by 
        subsection (a).
            (3) Voluntary participation in mechanism.--The 
        participation in the mechanism required by subsection (a) of an 
        individual otherwise participating in the pilot program shall 
        be at the election of the individual.
    (c) Inclusion of Information on Mechanism in Reports.--Each report 
to Congress on the pilot program after the date of the commencement of 
the mechanism required by subsection (a) shall include information on 
the mechanism, including a current assessment of the feasability and 
advisability of using the mechanism to include information on dental 
care furnished individuals in the electronic medical records of the 
Department with respect to such individuals.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 355. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There is authorized to be appropriated for the Department of 
Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2015 $305,000,000 to carry out this 
subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle. The amount so 
authorized to be appropriated shall be available for obligation for the 
five-year period beginning on the date that is one year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

            Subtitle F--Health Care Related to Sexual Trauma

SEC. 361. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR SEXUAL TRAUMA COUNSELING AND 
              TREATMENT TO VETERANS ON INACTIVE DUTY TRAINING.

    Section 1720D(a)(1) is amended by striking ``or active duty for 
training'' and inserting ``, active duty for training, or inactive duty 
training''.

SEC. 362. PROVISION OF COUNSELING AND TREATMENT FOR SEXUAL TRAUMA BY 
              THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO MEMBERS OF THE 
              ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Expansion of Coverage to Members of the Armed Forces.--
Subsection (a) of section 1720D is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph (2):
    ``(2)(A) In operating the program required by paragraph (1), the 
Secretary may, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, provide 
counseling and care and services to members of the Armed Forces 
(including members of the National Guard and Reserves) on active duty 
to overcome psychological trauma described in that paragraph.
    ``(B) A member described in subparagraph (A) shall not be required 
to obtain a referral before receiving counseling and care and services 
under this paragraph.''; and
            (3) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``a veteran'' and inserting ``an 
                individual''; and
                    (B) by striking ``that veteran'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``that individual''.
    (b) Information to Members on Availability of Counseling and 
Services.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended--
            (1) by striking ``to veterans'' each place it appears; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``members of the Armed 
        Forces and'' before ``individuals''.
    (c) Inclusion of Members in Reports on Counseling and Services.--
Subsection (e) of such section is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``to 
        veterans'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``women veterans'' and inserting 
                ``individuals''; and
                    (B) by striking ``training under subsection (d).'' 
                and inserting ``training under subsection (d), 
                disaggregated by--
                    ``(A) veterans;
                    ``(B) members of the Armed Forces (including 
                members of the National Guard and Reserves) on active 
                duty; and
                    ``(C) for each of subparagraphs (A) and (B)--
                            ``(i) men; and
                            ``(ii) women.'';
            (3) in paragraph (4), by striking ``veterans'' and 
        inserting ``individuals''; and
            (4) in paragraph (5)--
                    (A) by striking ``women veterans'' and inserting 
                ``individuals'' ; and
                    (B) by inserting ``, including specific 
                recommendations for individuals specified in 
                subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (2)'' 
                before the period at the end.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 363. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS SCREENING MECHANISM TO DETECT 
              INCIDENTS OF DOMESTIC ABUSE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall develop 
and implement a screening mechanism to be used when a veteran seeks 
healthcare services from the Department of Veterans Affairs to detect 
if the veteran has been a victim of domestic abuse for purposes of 
improving the treatment of the veteran and assessing the prevalence of 
domestic abuse in the veteran population.
    (b) Readily Available Screening Tools.--In developing and 
implementing a screening mechanism under subsection (a), the Secretary 
may incorporate into the screening mechanism such readily available 
screening tools as the Secretary considers appropriate for the 
screening mechanism.
    (c) Domestic Abuse Defined.--In this section, the term ``domestic 
abuse'' means behavior with respect to an individual that--
            (1) constitutes--
                    (A) a pattern of behavior resulting in physical or 
                emotional abuse, economic control, or interference with 
                the personal liberty of that individual;
                    (B) a violation of Federal or State law involving 
                the use, attempted use, or threatened use of force or 
                violence against that individual; or
                    (C) a violation of a lawful order issued for the 
                protection of that individual; and
            (2) is committed by a person who--
                    (A) is a current or former spouse or domestic 
                partner of that individual;
                    (B) shares a child in common with that individual;
                    (C) is a current or former intimate partner of that 
                individual that shares or has shared a common domicile 
                with that individual;
                    (D) is a caregiver or family caregiver of that 
                individual (as such terms are defined in section 
                1720G(d) of title 38, United States Code); or
                    (E) is in any other type of relationship with that 
                individual that the Secretary may specify for purposes 
                of this section.

SEC. 364. REPORTS ON MILITARY SEXUAL TRAUMA AND DOMESTIC ABUSE.

    (a) Report on Services Available for Military Sexual Trauma in the 
Department of Veterans Affairs.--Not later than 630 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report 
on the treatment and services available from the Department of Veterans 
Affairs for male veterans who experience military sexual trauma 
compared to such treatment and services available to female veterans 
who experience military sexual trauma.
    (b) Report on Domestic Abuse Among Veterans.--Not later than two 
years after the implementation of the screening mechanism required by 
section 363(a) of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Director of 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall jointly submit to 
the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on domestic 
abuse among veterans that includes the following:
            (1) A summary of the types, outcomes, and circumstances of 
        incidents of domestic abuse that have been reported by veterans 
        during the two-year period preceding the submission of the 
        report.
            (2) A summary of the treatments available from the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs for veterans who experience 
        domestic abuse and an assessment of the effectiveness of those 
        treatments.
            (3) Data and analysis on any correlation between an 
        incident of military sexual trauma or sexual trauma experienced 
        after the age of 18 and domestic abuse.
            (4) Any other issues that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        or the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and 
        Prevention determines appropriate.
    (c) Reports on Transition of Military Sexual Trauma and Domestic 
Abuse Treatment From Department of Defense to Department of Veterans 
Affairs.--Not later than 630 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, and annually thereafter for five years, the Department of 
Veterans Affairs-Department of Defense Joint Executive Committee 
established by section 320(a) of title 38, United States Code, shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on military 
sexual trauma and domestic abuse that includes the following:
            (1) The processes and procedures utilized by the Department 
        of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense to facilitate 
        transition of treatment of individuals who have experienced 
        military sexual trauma or domestic abuse from treatment 
        provided by the Department of Defense to treatment provided by 
        the Department of Veterans Affairs.
            (2) A description and assessment of the collaboration 
        between the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department 
        of Defense in assisting veterans in filing claims for 
        disabilities related to military sexual trauma or domestic 
        abuse, including permitting veterans access to information and 
        evidence necessary to develop or support such claims.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the 
                Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Domestic abuse.--The term ``domestic abuse'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 363(c) of this Act.
            (3) Military sexual trauma.--The term ``military sexual 
        trauma'' means psychological trauma, which in the judgment of a 
        mental health professional employed by the Department, resulted 
        from a physical assault of a sexual nature, battery of a sexual 
        nature, or sexual harassment which occurred while the veteran 
        was serving on active duty or active duty for training.
            (4) Sexual harassment.--The term ``sexual harassment'' 
        means repeated, unsolicited verbal or physical contact of a 
        sexual nature which is threatening in character.
            (5) Sexual trauma.--The term ``sexual trauma'' shall have 
        the meaning given that term by the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs for purposes of this section.
    (e) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

            Subtitle G--Reproductive Treatment and Services

SEC. 371. CLARIFICATION THAT FERTILITY COUNSELING AND TREATMENT ARE 
              MEDICAL SERVICES WHICH THE SECRETARY MAY FURNISH TO 
              VETERANS LIKE OTHER MEDICAL SERVICES.

    Section 1701(6), as amended by section 305(b)(1) of this Act, is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(I) Fertility counseling and treatment, including 
                treatment using assisted reproductive technology.''.

SEC. 372. REPRODUCTIVE TREATMENT AND CARE FOR SPOUSES AND SURROGATES OF 
              VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter VIII of chapter 17 is amended by adding 
at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1788. Reproductive treatment and care for spouses and surrogates 
              of veterans
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall furnish fertility counseling 
and treatment, including through the use of assisted reproductive 
technology, to a spouse or surrogate of a severely wounded, ill, or 
injured veteran who has an infertility condition incurred or aggravated 
in line of duty in the active military, naval, or air service and who 
is enrolled in the system of annual patient enrollment established 
under section 1705(a) of this title if the spouse or surrogate and the 
veteran apply jointly for such counseling and treatment through a 
process prescribed by the Secretary.
    ``(b) Coordination of Care for Other Spouses and Surrogates.--In 
the case of a spouse or surrogate of a veteran not described in 
subsection (a) who is seeking fertility counseling and treatment, the 
Secretary may coordinate fertility counseling and treatment for such 
spouse or surrogate.
    ``(c) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
require the Secretary--
            ``(1) to find or certify a surrogate for a veteran or to 
        connect a surrogate with a veteran; or
            ``(2) to furnish maternity care to a spouse or surrogate of 
        a veteran.
    ``(d) Assisted Reproductive Technology Defined.--In this section, 
the term `assisted reproductive technology' includes in vitro 
fertilization and other fertility treatments in which both eggs and 
sperm are handled when clinically appropriate.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 17 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
1787 the following new item:

``1788. Reproductive treatment and care for spouses and surrogates of 
                            veterans.''.

SEC. 373. ADOPTION ASSISTANCE FOR SEVERELY WOUNDED VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter VIII of chapter 17, as amended by 
section 372(a) of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:
``Sec. 1789. Adoption assistance
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may pay an amount, not to exceed 
the limitation amount, to assist a covered veteran in the adoption of 
one or more children.
    ``(b) Covered Veteran.--For purposes of this section, a covered 
veteran is any severely wounded, ill, or injured veteran who--
            ``(1) has an infertility condition incurred or aggravated 
        in line of duty in the active military, naval, or air service; 
        and
            ``(2) is enrolled in the system of annual patient 
        enrollment established under section 1705(a) of this title.
    ``(c) Limitation Amount.--For purposes of this section, the 
limitation amount is the amount equal to the lesser of--
            ``(1) the cost the Department would incur if the Secretary 
        were to provide a covered veteran with one cycle of fertility 
        treatment through the use of assisted reproductive technology 
        under section 1788 of this title, as determined by the 
        Secretary; or
            ``(2) the cost the Department would incur by paying the 
        expenses of three adoptions by covered veterans, as determined 
        by the Secretary.
    ``(d) Assisted Reproductive Technology Defined.--In this section, 
the term `assisted reproductive technology' has the meaning given that 
term in section 1788 of this title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 17, as amended by section 372(b) of this Act, is further 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 1788 the 
following new item:

``1789. Adoption assistance.''.

SEC. 374. REGULATIONS ON FURNISHING OF FERTILITY COUNSELING AND 
              TREATMENT AND ADOPTION ASSISTANCE BY DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 540 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
prescribe regulations--
            (1) on the furnishing of fertility treatment to veterans 
        using assisted reproductive technology;
            (2) to carry out section 1788 of title 38, United States 
        Code, as added by section 372 of this Act; and
            (3) to carry out section 1789 of such title, as added by 
        section 373 of this Act.
    (b) Limitation.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, during 
the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and 
ending on the date on which the Secretary prescribes regulations under 
subsection (a), the Secretary may not furnish--
            (1) to a veteran any fertility treatment that uses an 
        assisted reproductive technology that the Secretary has not 
        used in the provision of a fertility treatment to a veteran 
        before the date of the enactment of this Act;
            (2) any fertility counseling or treatment under section 
        1788 of such title, as added by section 372 of this Act; or
            (3) any assistance under section 1789 of such title, as 
        added by section 373 of this Act.
    (c) Assisted Reproductive Technology Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``assisted reproductive technology'' has the meaning given the 
term in section 1788 of such title, as added by section 372 of this 
Act.

SEC. 375. COORDINATION BETWEEN DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND 
              DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ON FURNISHING OF FERTILITY 
              COUNSELING AND TREATMENT.

    The Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Defense 
shall share best practices and facilitate referrals, as they consider 
appropriate, on the furnishing of fertility counseling and treatment.

SEC. 376. FACILITATION OF REPRODUCTION AND INFERTILITY RESEARCH.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 73, as amended by section 
325(a) of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:
``Sec. 7330C. Facilitation of reproduction and infertility research
    ``(a) Facilitation of Research Required.--The Secretary shall 
facilitate research conducted collaboratively by the Secretary of 
Defense and the Secretary of Health and Human Services to improve the 
ability of the Department of Veterans Affairs to meet the long-term 
reproductive health care needs of veterans who have a genitourinary 
service-connected disability or a condition that was incurred or 
aggravated in line of duty in the active military, naval, or air 
service, such as a spinal cord injury, that affects the veterans' 
ability to reproduce.
    ``(b) Dissemination of Information.--The Secretary shall ensure 
that information produced by the research facilitated under this 
section that may be useful for other activities of the Veterans Health 
Administration is disseminated throughout the Veterans Health 
Administration.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 73, as amended by section 325(b) of this Act, is further 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 7330B the 
following new item:

``7330C. Facilitation of reproduction and infertility research.''.
    (c) Report.--Not later than three years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to Congress a report on the research activities conducted by the 
Secretary under section 7330C of title 38, United States Code, as added 
by subsection (a).

SEC. 377. ANNUAL REPORT ON PROVISION OF FERTILITY COUNSELING AND 
              TREATMENT FURNISHED BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and not less frequently than annually thereafter, 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report on the fertility counseling 
and treatment furnished by the Department of Veterans Affairs during 
the year preceding the submittal of the report.
    (b) Elements.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include, for the period covered by the report, the following:
            (1) The number of veterans who received fertility 
        counseling or treatment furnished by the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs, disaggregated by era of military service of such 
        veterans.
            (2) The number of spouses and surrogates of veterans who 
        received fertility counseling or treatment furnished by the 
        Department.
            (3) The cost to the Department of furnishing fertility 
        counseling and treatment, disaggregated by cost of services and 
        administration.
            (4) The average cost to the Department per recipient of 
        such counseling and treatment.
            (5) In cases in which the Department furnished fertility 
        treatment through the use of assisted reproductive technology, 
        the average number of cycles per person furnished.
            (6) A description of how fertility counseling and treatment 
        services of the Department are coordinated with similar 
        services of the Department of Defense.

SEC. 378. PROGRAM ON ASSISTANCE FOR CHILD CARE FOR CERTAIN VETERANS.

    (a) Assistance for Child Care for Certain Veterans Receiving Health 
Care.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 17 is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1709B. Assistance for child care for certain veterans receiving 
              health care
    ``(a) Program Required.--The Secretary shall carry out a program to 
provide, subject to subsection (b), assistance to qualified veterans 
described in subsection (c) to obtain child care so that such veterans 
can receive health care services described in subsection (c).
    ``(b) Limitation on Period of Payments.--Assistance may only be 
provided to a qualified veteran under this section for receipt of child 
care during the period that the qualified veteran--
            ``(1) receives health care services described in subsection 
        (c) at a facility of the Department; and
            ``(2) requires travel to and from such facility for the 
        receipt of such health care services.
    ``(c) Qualified Veterans.--For purposes of this section, a 
qualified veteran is a veteran who is--
            ``(1) the primary caretaker of a child or children; and
            ``(2)(A) receiving from the Department--
                    ``(i) regular mental health care services;
                    ``(ii) intensive mental health care services; or
                    ``(iii) such other intensive health care services 
                that the Secretary determines that provision of 
                assistance to the veteran to obtain child care would 
                improve access to such health care services by the 
                veteran; or
            ``(B) in need of regular or intensive mental health care 
        services from the Department, and but for lack of child care 
        services, would receive such health care services from the 
        Department.
    ``(d) Locations.--The Secretary shall carry out the program in no 
fewer than three Veterans Integrated Service Networks selected by the 
Secretary for purposes of the program.
    ``(e) Forms of Child Care Assistance.--(1) Child care assistance 
under this section may include the following:
            ``(A) Stipends for the payment of child care offered by 
        licensed child care centers (either directly or through a 
        voucher program) which shall be, to the extent practicable, 
        modeled after the Department of Veterans Affairs Child Care 
        Subsidy Program established pursuant to section 630 of the 
        Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 2002 
        (Public Law 107-67; 115 Stat. 552).
            ``(B) Direct provision of child care at an on-site facility 
        of the Department.
            ``(C) Payments to private child care agencies.
            ``(D) Collaboration with facilities or programs of other 
        Federal departments or agencies.
            ``(E) Such other forms of assistance as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
    ``(2) In the case that child care assistance under this section is 
provided as a stipend under paragraph (1)(A), such stipend shall cover 
the full cost of such child care.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 17 is amended by inserting after the item 
        relating to section 1709A the following new item:

``1709B. Assistance for child care for certain veterans receiving 
                            health care.''.
            (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 205(e) of the Caregivers 
        and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (Public Law 
        111-163; 38 U.S.C. 1710 note) is amended by inserting ``but not 
        after the date of the enactment of the Comprehensive Veterans 
        Health and Benefits and Military Retirement Pay Restoration Act 
        of 2014'' before the period at the end.
    (b) Assistance for Child Care for Individuals Receiving 
Readjustment Counseling and Related Mental Health Services.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 17, as amended by 
        subsection (a)(1) of this section, is further amended by adding 
        at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1709C. Assistance for child care for individuals receiving 
              readjustment counseling and related mental health 
              services
    ``(a) Program Required.--The Secretary shall carry out a program to 
provide, subject to subsection (b), assistance to qualified individuals 
described in subsection (c) to obtain child care so that such 
individuals can receive readjustment counseling and related mental 
health services.
    ``(b) Limitation on Period of Payments.--Assistance may only be 
provided to a qualified individual under this section for receipt of 
child care during the period that the qualified individual receives 
readjustment counseling and related health care services at a Vet 
Center.
    ``(c) Qualified Individuals.--For purposes of this section, a 
qualified individual is an individual who is--
            ``(1) the primary caretaker of a child or children; and
            ``(2)(A) receiving from the Department regular readjustment 
        counseling and related mental health services; or
            ``(B) in need of readjustment counseling and related mental 
        health services from the Department, and but for lack of child 
        care services, would receive such counseling and services from 
        the Department.
    ``(d) Locations.--The Secretary shall carry out the program under 
this section in no fewer than three Readjustment Counseling Service 
Regions selected by the Secretary for purposes of the program.
    ``(e) Forms of Child Care Assistance.--(1) Child care assistance 
under this section may include the following:
            ``(A) Stipends for the payment of child care offered by 
        licensed child care centers (either directly or through a 
        voucher program) which shall be, to the extent practicable, 
        modeled after the Department of Veterans Affairs Child Care 
        Subsidy Program established pursuant to section 630 of the 
        Treasury and General Government Appropriations Act, 2002 
        (Public Law 107-67; 115 Stat. 552).
            ``(B) Payments to private child care agencies.
            ``(C) Collaboration with facilities or programs of other 
        Federal departments or agencies.
            ``(D) Such other forms of assistance as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
    ``(2) In the case that child care assistance under this subsection 
is provided as a stipend under paragraph (1)(A), such stipend shall 
cover the full cost of such child care.
    ``(f) Vet Center Defined.--In this section, the term `Vet Center' 
means a center for readjustment counseling and related mental health 
services for individuals under section 1712A of this title.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 17, as amended by subsection (a)(2) of 
        this section, is further amended by inserting after the item 
        relating to section 1709B the following new item:

``1709C. Assistance for child care for individuals receiving 
                            readjustment counseling and related mental 
                            health services.''.

SEC. 379. COUNSELING IN RETREAT SETTINGS FOR WOMEN VETERANS NEWLY 
              SEPARATED FROM SERVICE IN THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Counseling in Retreat Settings.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter II of chapter 17 is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1720H. Counseling in retreat settings for women veterans newly 
              separated from service in the Armed Forces
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall provide, through the 
Readjustment Counseling Service of the Veterans Health Administration, 
reintegration and readjustment services described in subsection (c) in 
group retreat settings to women veterans who are recently separated 
from service in the Armed Forces after a prolonged deployment.
    ``(b) Election of Veteran.--The receipt of services under this 
section by a woman veteran shall be at the election of the veteran.
    ``(c) Covered Services.--The services provided to a woman veteran 
under this section shall include the following:
            ``(1) Information on reintegration into the veteran's 
        family, employment, and community.
            ``(2) Financial counseling.
            ``(3) Occupational counseling.
            ``(4) Information and counseling on stress reduction.
            ``(5) Information and counseling on conflict resolution.
            ``(6) Such other information and counseling as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate to assist the veteran in 
        reintegration into the veteran's family, employment, and 
        community.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 17 is amended by inserting after the item 
        relating to section 1720G the following new item:

``1720H. Counseling in retreat settings for women veterans newly 
                            separated from service in the Armed 
                            Forces.''.
    (b) Repeal of Superseded Pilot Program Authority.--Section 203 of 
the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 2010 (Public 
Law 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 1712A note) is hereby repealed.

               Subtitle H--Major Medical Facility Leases

SEC. 381. AUTHORIZATION OF MAJOR MEDICAL FACILITY LEASES.

    The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may carry out the following major 
medical facility leases at the locations specified, and in an amount 
for each lease not to exceed the amount shown for such location (not 
including any estimated cancellation costs):
            (1) For a clinical research and pharmacy coordinating 
        center, Albuquerque, New Mexico, an amount not to exceed 
        $9,560,000.
            (2) For a community-based outpatient clinic, Brick, New 
        Jersey, an amount not to exceed $7,280,000.
            (3) For a new primary care and dental clinic annex, 
        Charleston, South Carolina, an amount not to exceed $7,070,250.
            (4) For the Cobb County community-based Outpatient Clinic, 
        Cobb County, Georgia, an amount not to exceed $6,409,000.
            (5) For the Leeward Outpatient Healthcare Access Center, 
        Honolulu, Hawaii, including a co-located clinic with the 
        Department of Defense and the co-location of the Honolulu 
        Regional Office of the Veterans Benefits Administration and the 
        Kapolei Vet Center of the Department of Veterans Affairs, an 
        amount not to exceed $15,887,370.
            (6) For a community-based outpatient clinic, Johnson 
        County, Kansas, an amount not to exceed $2,263,000.
            (7) For a replacement community-based outpatient clinic, 
        Lafayette, Louisiana, an amount not to exceed $2,996,000.
            (8) For a community-based outpatient clinic, Lake Charles, 
        Louisiana, an amount not to exceed $2,626,000.
            (9) For outpatient clinic consolidation, New Port Richey, 
        Florida, an amount not to exceed $11,927,000.
            (10) For an outpatient clinic, Ponce, Puerto Rico, an 
        amount not to exceed $11,535,000.
            (11) For lease consolidation, San Antonio, Texas, an amount 
        not to exceed $19,426,000.
            (12) For a community-based outpatient clinic, San Diego, 
        California, an amount not to exceed $11,946,100.
            (13) For an outpatient clinic, Tyler, Texas, an amount not 
        to exceed $4,327,000.
            (14) For the Errera Community Care Center, West Haven, 
        Connecticut, an amount not to exceed $4,883,000.
            (15) For the Worcester community-based Outpatient Clinic, 
        Worcester, Massachusetts, an amount not to exceed $4,855,000.
            (16) For the expansion of a community-based outpatient 
        clinic, Cape Girardeau, Missouri, an amount not to exceed 
        $4,232,060.
            (17) For a multispecialty clinic, Chattanooga, Tennessee, 
        an amount not to exceed $7,069,000.
            (18) For the expansion of a community-based outpatient 
        clinic, Chico, California, an amount not to exceed $4,534,000.
            (19) For a community-based outpatient clinic, Chula Vista, 
        California, an amount not to exceed $3,714,000.
            (20) For a new research lease, Hines, Illinois, an amount 
        not to exceed $22,032,000.
            (21) For a replacement research lease, Houston, Texas, an 
        amount not to exceed $6,142,000.
            (22) For a community-based outpatient clinic, Lincoln, 
        Nebraska, an amount not to exceed $7,178,400.
            (23) For a community-based outpatient clinic, Lubbock, 
        Texas, an amount not to exceed $8,554,000.
            (24) For a community-based outpatient clinic consolidation, 
        Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, an amount not to exceed 
        $8,022,000.
            (25) For a community-based outpatient clinic, Phoenix, 
        Arizona, an amount not to exceed $20,757,000.
            (26) For the expansion of a community-based outpatient 
        clinic, Redding, California, an amount not to exceed 
        $8,154,000.
            (27) For the expansion of a community-based outpatient 
        clinic, Tulsa, Oklahoma, an amount not to exceed $13,269,200.

SEC. 382. BUDGETARY TREATMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MAJOR 
              MEDICAL FACILITIES LEASES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) Title 31, United States Code, requires the Department 
        of Veterans Affairs to record the full cost of its contractual 
        obligation against funds available at the time a contract is 
        executed.
            (2) Office of Management and Budget Circular A-11 provides 
        guidance to agencies in meeting the statutory requirements 
        under title 31, United States Code, with respect to leases.
            (3) For operating leases, Office of Management and Budget 
        Circular A-11 requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
        record up-front budget authority in an ``amount equal to total 
        payments under the full term of the lease or [an] amount 
        sufficient to cover first year lease payments plus cancellation 
        costs''.
    (b) Requirement for Obligation of Full Cost.--Subject to the 
availability of appropriations provided in advance, in exercising the 
authority of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter into leases 
provided in this Act, the Secretary shall record, pursuant to section 
1501 of title 31, United States Code, as the full cost of the 
contractual obligation at the time a contract is executed either--
            (1) an amount equal to total payments under the full term 
        of the lease; or
            (2) if the lease specifies payments to be made in the event 
        the lease is terminated before its full term, an amount 
        sufficient to cover the first year lease payments plus the 
        specified cancellation costs.
    (c) Transparency.--
            (1) Compliance.--Subsection (b) of section 8104 is amended 
        by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(7) In the case of a prospectus proposing funding for a 
        major medical facility lease, a detailed analysis of how the 
        lease is expected to comply with Office of Management and 
        Budget Circular A-11 and section 1341 of title 31 (commonly 
        referred to as the `Anti-Deficiency Act'). Any such analysis 
        shall include--
                    ``(A) an analysis of the classification of the 
                lease as a `lease-purchase', `capital lease', or 
                `operating lease' as those terms are defined in Office 
                of Management and Budget Circular A-11;
                    ``(B) an analysis of the obligation of budgetary 
                resources associated with the lease; and
                    ``(C) an analysis of the methodology used in 
                determining the asset cost, fair market value, and 
                cancellation costs of the lease.''.
            (2) Submittal to congress.--Such section 8104 is further 
        amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h)(1) Not less than 30 days before entering into a major medical 
facility lease, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the House of Representatives--
            ``(A) notice of the Secretary's intention to enter into the 
        lease;
            ``(B) a copy of the proposed lease;
            ``(C) a description and analysis of any differences between 
        the prospectus submitted pursuant to subsection (b) and the 
        proposed lease; and
            ``(D) a scoring analysis demonstrating that the proposed 
        lease fully complies with Office of Management and Budget 
        Circular A-11.
    ``(2) Each committee described in paragraph (1) shall ensure that 
any information submitted to the committee under such paragraph is 
treated by the committee with the same level of confidentiality as is 
required by law of the Secretary and subject to the same statutory 
penalties for unauthorized disclosure or use as the Secretary.
    ``(3) Not more than 30 days after entering into a major medical 
facility lease, the Secretary shall submit to each committee described 
in paragraph (1) a report on any material differences between the lease 
that was entered into and the proposed lease described under such 
paragraph, including how the lease that was entered into changes the 
previously submitted scoring analysis described in subparagraph (D) of 
such paragraph.''.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section, or the 
amendments made by this section, shall be construed to in any way 
relieve the Department of Veterans Affairs from any statutory or 
regulatory obligations or requirements existing prior to the enactment 
of this section and such amendments.

                TITLE IV--EMPLOYMENT AND RELATED MATTERS

Subtitle A--Training and Other Services for Veterans Seeking Employment

SEC. 401. REAUTHORIZATION OF VETERANS RETRAINING ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Extension.--Subsection (k) of section 211 of the VOW to Hire 
Heroes Act of 2011 (Public Law 112-56; 38 U.S.C. 4100 note) is amended 
by striking ``March 31, 2014'' and inserting ``June 30, 2016''.
    (b) Number of Eligible Veterans.--Subsection (a)(2) of such section 
is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
                    ``(C) 50,000 during the period beginning April 1, 
                2014, and ending June 30, 2015; and
                    ``(D) 50,000 during the period beginning July 1, 
                2015, and ending June 30, 2016.''.
    (c) Clarification of Limitation on Aggregate Amount of 
Assistance.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended by striking ``up 
to 12 months of retraining assistance provided by the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs'' and inserting ``an aggregate of not more than 12 
months of retraining assistance provided by the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs under this section''.
    (d) Providers of Retraining Assistance.--Subsection (b) of such 
section is further amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) as 
        paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph (3):
            ``(3) is offered by a four-year educational institution 
        and, as determined by the Secretary, is not reasonably 
        available at a community college or technical school;''.
    (e) Extension of Application Date.--Subsection (e)(1)(G) of such 
section is amended by striking ``October 1, 2013'' and inserting 
``October 1, 2015''.
    (f) Reports.--Subsection (i) of such section is amended--
            (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Report'' and 
        inserting ``Reports'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph (1):
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
        submit to the appropriate committees of Congress reports on 
        training assistance provided under this section as follows:
                    ``(A) By not later than October 1, 2015, for 
                participants provided assistance through March 31, 
                2014.
                    ``(B) By not later than October 1, 2017, for 
                participants provided assistance during the period 
                beginning on April 1, 2014, and ending on June 2016.''; 
                and
            (3) in paragraph (2), by striking ``The report required by 
        paragraph (1) shall include'' and inserting ``Each report 
        required by paragraph (1) shall include, for the period covered 
        by such report,''.

SEC. 402. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO 
              PROVIDE REHABILITATION AND VOCATIONAL BENEFITS TO MEMBERS 
              OF ARMED FORCES WITH SEVERE INJURIES OR ILLNESSES.

    (a) In General.--Section 1631(b)(2) of the Wounded Warrior Act 
(title XVI of Public Law 110-181; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note) is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2014'' and inserting ``December 31, 2016''.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
        on the benefits provided by the Secretary under section 1631(b) 
        of such Act.
            (2) Appropriate committees of congress.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.

SEC. 403. EXTENSION OF ADDITIONAL REHABILITATION PROGRAMS FOR PERSONS 
              WHO HAVE EXHAUSTED RIGHTS TO UNEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS UNDER 
              STATE LAW.

    Section 3102(b)(4) is amended by striking ``March 31, 2014'' and 
inserting ``March 31, 2016''.

SEC. 404. UNIFIED EMPLOYMENT PORTAL FOR VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Section 4105 is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(c)(1) The Secretary shall develop a single, unified Federal web-
based employment portal, for use by veterans, containing information 
regarding all Federal programs and activities concerning employment, 
unemployment, and training to the extent the programs and activities 
affect veterans.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall work with representatives from the 
Department of Defense, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Small 
Business Administration, and other Federal agencies and organizations 
concerned with veterans' issues, to determine an appropriate platform 
and implementing agency for the portal. The Secretary shall enter into 
an agreement with the other Federal agencies for the implementation of 
the portal.''.
    (b) Implementation.--The Secretary of Labor shall implement the 
portal required by subsection (c) of section 4105 of title 38, United 
States Code (as added by subsection (a) of this section), by not later 
than January 1, 2015.

SEC. 405. REPORT ON UNIFIED GOVERNMENT INTERNET PORTAL FOR VETERANS ON 
              JOBS AVAILABLE THROUGH THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.

    (a) Identification of Internet Websites and Applications That Can 
Assist Veterans Seeking Employment.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Labor shall, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the 
        Secretary of Defense, and other appropriate public and private 
        entities, take appropriate actions to identify Internet 
        websites and applications that can assist veterans in seeking 
        employment.
            (2) Priority in identification of certain websites and 
        applications.--In identifying websites and applications 
        pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary shall place a 
        particular priority on identifying websites and applications 
        that do the following:
                    (A) Match veterans seeking employment with 
                available jobs based on the skills the veterans 
                acquired as members of the Armed Forces.
                    (B) Permit employers to post information about 
                available jobs.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the effective date 
specified in subsection (c), the Secretary of Labor shall submit to the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
actions of the Secretary under subsection (a). The report shall include 
an assessment of the feasibility and advisability of creating a single, 
unified Internet-based employment portal for the Federal Government for 
use by veterans regarding employment through the Federal Government, 
including the cost of creating the portal, the collaboration with other 
Federal agencies required to create the portal, and the anticipated use 
of the portal.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 406. INFORMATION ON DISABILITY-RELATED EMPLOYMENT AND EDUCATION 
              PROTECTIONS IN TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 1144(b) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(9) Provide information about disability-related 
        employment and education protections.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date that is one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

 Subtitle B--Employment of Veterans and Recognition of Veteran Status 
               With Respect to Employment Related Matters

SEC. 411. EMPLOYMENT OF VETERANS WITH THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.

    (a) In General.--Section 4214 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following:
    ``(4)(A) The requirement under this paragraph is in addition to the 
appointment of qualified covered veterans under the authority under 
paragraph (1) by the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department 
of Defense.
    ``(B) The head of each agency, in consultation with the Director of 
the Office of Personnel Management, shall develop a plan for exercising 
the authority specified in subparagraph (C) during the five-year period 
beginning on the date of the enactment of the Comprehensive Veterans 
Health and Benefits and Military Retirement Pay Restoration Act of 
2014.
    ``(C) The authority specified in this subparagraph is the authority 
as follows:
            ``(i) The authority under paragraph (1).
            ``(ii) The authority available to the agency concerned 
        under the Veterans Employment Opportunities Act of 1998 (Public 
        Law 105-339) and the amendments made by that Act.
    ``(D) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall 
ensure that under the plans developed under subparagraph (B) agencies 
shall appoint to existing vacancies not fewer than 15,000 qualified 
covered veterans during the five-year period beginning on the date of 
the enactment of the Comprehensive Veterans Health and Benefits and 
Military Retirement Pay Restoration Act of 2014. For purposes of 
complying with this subparagraph, an appointment pursuant to the 
authority referred to in subparagraph (C)(ii) shall not count toward 
the number required by this subparagraph unless the appointment is to a 
vacancy in a full-time, permanent position.'';
            (2) in subsection (d), in the third sentence, by inserting 
        ``(including, during the 5-year period beginning on the date of 
        the enactment of the Comprehensive Veterans Health and Benefits 
        and Military Retirement Pay Restoration Act of 2014, the 
        development and implementation by each agency of the plan 
        required under subsection (b)(4), which shall include 
        information regarding the grade or pay level of appointments by 
        the agency under the plan and whether the appointments are, or 
        are converted to, career or career-conditional appointments)'' 
        after ``subsection (b) of this section''; and
            (3) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in the matter before subparagraph (A), 
                        by striking ``to the Congress'' and inserting 
                        ``to the appropriate committees of Congress''; 
                        and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (A), by inserting 
                        ``(including, during the 5-year period 
                        beginning on the date of the enactment of the 
                        Comprehensive Veterans Health and Benefits and 
                        Military Retirement Pay Restoration Act of 
                        2014, the development and implementation by the 
                        agency of the plan required under subsection 
                        (b)(4), which shall include information 
                        regarding the grade or pay level of 
                        appointments by the agency under the plan and 
                        whether the appointments are, or are converted 
                        to, permanent appointments)'' before the 
                        period; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(3) In this subsection, the term `appropriate committees of 
Congress' means--
            ``(A) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee 
        on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; 
        and
            ``(B) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee 
        on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
        Representatives.''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress (as defined under 
section 4214(e)(3) of title 38, United States Code, as amended by 
subsection (a)) regarding the development of a plan to carry out the 
amendments made by subsection (a).

SEC. 412. STATE RECOGNITION OF MILITARY EXPERIENCE OF VETERANS IN 
              ISSUING LICENSES AND CREDENTIALS TO VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Section 4102A(c) is amended by striking paragraph 
(9) and inserting the following new paragraph (9):
    ``(9)(A) As a condition of a grant or contract under which funds 
are made available to a State under subsection (b)(5) in order to carry 
out section 4103A or 4104 of this title, the State shall--
            ``(i) establish a program under which the State administers 
        an examination to each veteran seeking a license or credential 
        issued by the State and issues such license or credential to 
        such veteran without requiring such veteran to undergo any 
        training or apprenticeship if the veteran--
                    ``(I) receives a satisfactory score on completion 
                of such examination, as determined by the State;
                    ``(II) has been awarded a military occupational 
                specialty that is substantially equivalent to or 
                exceeds the requirements of the State for the issuance 
                of such license or credential;
                    ``(III) has engaged in the active practice of the 
                occupation for which the veteran is seeking such 
                license or credential for at least two of the five 
                years preceding the date of application; and
                    ``(IV) pays any customary or usual fees required by 
                the State for such license or credential; and
            ``(ii) submit each year to the Secretary a report on the 
        exams administered under clause (i) during the most recently 
        completed 12-month period that includes, for the period covered 
        by the report the number of veterans who completed an exam 
        administered by the State under clause (i) and a description of 
        the results of such exams, disaggregated by occupational field.
    ``(B) The Secretary may waive the requirement under subparagraph 
(A) that a State establish a program described in that subparagraph as 
a condition of a grant or contract if the State certifies to the 
Secretary that the State--
            ``(i) takes into account previous military training for the 
        purposes of issuing licenses or credentials;
            ``(ii) permits veterans to completely satisfy through 
        examination any training or testing requirements for a license 
        or credential with respect to which a veteran has previously 
        completed military training; and
            ``(iii) for any credential or license for which a veteran 
        is unable to completely satisfy such requirements through 
        examination, the State substantially reduces training time 
        required to satisfy such requirement based on the military 
        training received by the veteran.
    ``(C) Not less frequently than once each year, the Secretary shall 
submit to Congress and the Secretary of Defense a report summarizing 
the information received by the Secretary under subparagraph 
(A)(ii).''.
    (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) Exams.--Subparagraph (A) of section 4102A(c)(9) of 
        title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall 
        take effect on the date that is one year after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act and shall apply with respect to grants 
        and contracts described in such subparagraph awarded after such 
        date.
            (2) Reports.--Subparagraph (B) of such section 4102A(c)(9), 
        as so added, shall take effect on the date that is one year 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act and the Secretary 
        of Labor shall submit the first report under such subparagraph 
        not later than two years after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.

SEC. 413. GRANTS TO HIRE VETERANS AS FIRST RESPONDERS.

    (a) Grants for Firefighters.--The Secretary of Homeland Security 
shall award grants under section 34 of the Federal Fire Prevention and 
Control Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C. 2229a) to hire veterans as firefighters.
    (b) Grants for Law Enforcement Officers.--The Attorney General 
shall award grants under part Q of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control 
and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3796dd et seq.) to hire 
veterans as law enforcement officers.
    (c) Priority.--In awarding grants under this section to hire 
veterans, the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Attorney General 
shall give priority to the hiring of veterans who served on active duty 
in the Armed Forces on or after September 11, 2001.
    (d) Funding.--
            (1) Department of homeland security.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 for the Department of 
        Homeland Security, $125,000,000 to carry out subsection (a).
            (2) Department of justice.--There is authorized to be 
        appropriated for fiscal year 2015 for the Department of 
        Justice, $125,000,000 to carry out subsection (b).
            (3) Availability.--The amounts authorized to be 
        appropriated by this subsection shall be available for 
        expenditure through September 30, 2018.

SEC. 414. EMPLOYMENT OF VETERANS AS EVALUATION FACTOR IN THE AWARDING 
              OF FEDERAL CONTRACTS.

    (a) Civilian Contracts.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 33 of title 41, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 3313. Employment of veterans as evaluation factor
    ``The head of each executive agency shall consider favorably as an 
evaluation factor in solicitations for contracts and task or delivery 
order valued at or above $25,000,000 the employment by a prospective 
contractor of veterans constituting at least 5 percent of the 
contractor's workforce.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 33 of such title is amended by adding 
        after the item relating to section 3312 the following new item:

``3313. Employment of veterans as evaluation factor.''.
    (b) Defense Contracts.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 2338. Employment of veterans as evaluation factor
    ``The head of each agency shall consider favorably as an evaluation 
factor in solicitations for contracts and task or delivery order valued 
at or above $25,000,000 the employment by a prospective contractor of 
veterans constituting at least 5 percent of the contractor's 
workforce.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 137 of such title is amended by adding 
        after the item relating to section 2337 the following new item:

``2338. Employment of veterans as evaluation factor.''.
    (c) Regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council shall 
amend the Federal Acquisition Regulation to carry out the provisions of 
section 3313 of title 41, United States Code, and section 2338 of title 
10, United States Code, as added by subsections (a) and (b), 
respectively.

SEC. 415. REPORT ON DISCRIMINATION AGAINST MEMBERS OF RESERVE 
              COMPONENTS OF ARMED FORCES AND VETERANS IN CIVILIAN LABOR 
              MARKET.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 570 days after the date of the 
enactment of this act, the Secretary of Labor, in coordination with the 
heads of such agencies as the Secretary considers appropriate, shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on barriers 
and potential discrimination facing veterans in the labor market.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An evaluation of the following:
                    (A) The extent to which members of the reserve 
                components of the Armed Forces and veterans face 
                barriers to entry into the civilian labor market, 
                including whether such members and veterans face 
                obstacles in obtaining employment, maintaining 
                employment, or receiving promotions while employed.
                    (B) The extent to which a member of a reserve 
                component of the Armed Forces or a veteran faces 
                discrimination in the civilian labor market based on 
                the member's or veteran's status as a member of a 
                reserve component of the Armed Forces or as a veteran, 
                as the case may be.
                    (C) The adequacy and effectiveness of Federal laws 
                in effect on the day before the date of the enactment 
                of this Act in preventing or ameliorating acts of 
                discrimination against members of the reserve 
                components of the Armed Forces and veterans seeking or 
                retaining employment in the civilian labor market.
                    (D) The adequacy and effectiveness of programs of 
                the Department of Labor in effect on the day before the 
                date of the enactment of this Act in educating private 
                sector employers on matters relevant to hiring and 
                employing veterans and the military experience of 
                veterans.
            (2) Such recommendations as the Secretary may have for 
        legislative or administrative action--
                    (A) to address barriers or discrimination that 
                members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces 
                and veterans may face in the civilian labor market;
                    (B) to improve education and outreach for employers 
                in the civilian labor market on issues regarding hiring 
                and employing such members and veterans; and
                    (C) to assist employers in the civilian labor 
                market in matching the military experience of such 
                members and veterans with the needs of such employers.
            (3) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this section, the term 
``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee on 
        Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Committee on 
        Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                Subtitle C--Program on Career Transition

SEC. 421. PROGRAM ON PROVISION OF CAREER TRANSITION SERVICES TO YOUNG 
              VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Commencing not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, 
in collaboration with the Secretary of Labor, carry out a program to 
assess the feasibility and advisability of establishing a program to 
provide career transition services to eligible individuals--
            (1) to provide eligible individuals with work experience in 
        the civilian sector;
            (2) to increase the marketable skills of eligible 
        individuals;
            (3) to assist eligible individuals in obtaining long-term 
        employment; and
            (4) to assist in integrating eligible individuals into 
        their local communities.
    (b) Eligible Individuals.--For purposes of the program, an eligible 
individual is an individual who--
            (1) is--
                    (A) a veteran of the Armed Forces who was 
                discharged or released from service therein under 
                conditions other than dishonorable; or
                    (B) a member of a reserve component of the Armed 
                Forces (including the National Guard) who--
                            (i) served on active duty in the Armed 
                        Forces (other than active duty for training) 
                        for more than 180 consecutive days during the 
                        three-year period ending on the date of 
                        application for participation in the program; 
                        and
                            (ii) is not serving on active duty on the 
                        date of commencement of participation in the 
                        program;
            (2) if discharged or released from the Armed Forces on the 
        date of commencement of participation in the program, was so 
        discharged or released not later than three years before 
        application for participation in the program;
            (3) is unemployed or underemployed, as determined by the 
        Secretary; and
            (4) is, at the time at which the individual applies for 
        participation in the program, 18 years of age or older, but not 
        more than 30 years of age.
    (c) Eligible Employers.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of the program, an eligible 
        employer is an employer determined by the Secretary to meet 
        such criteria for participation in the program as the Secretary 
        shall establish for purposes of the program.
            (2) Past performance on certain matters.--The criteria 
        established by the Secretary under paragraph (1) may include 
        past performance of an employer with respect to the following:
                    (A) Job training, basic skills training, and 
                related activities.
                    (B) Financial accountability.
                    (C) Demonstrated high potential for growth and 
                long-term job creation.
            (3) For-profit and not-for-profit employers.--The employers 
        determined by the Secretary to be eligible employers under 
        paragraph (1) may include both for-profit and not-for-profit 
        employers.
            (4) Small business concerns.--In determining employers to 
        be eligible employers under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        ensure that small business concerns are afforded opportunities 
        to participate in the program.
            (5) Exclusions.--The following employers may not be 
        determined to be an eligible employer under paragraph (1):
                    (A) An agency of the Federal Government or a State 
                or local government.
                    (B) An employer that has previously participated in 
                the program and, as determined by the Secretary, failed 
                to abide by any requirement of the program.
                    (C) An employer that cannot give an assurance to 
                the Secretary at the time of application for 
                participation in the program under subsection (l), and 
                in such manner as the Secretary shall specify pursuant 
                to that subsection, on each matter as follows:
                            (i) That the employer has not been 
                        investigated or subject to a case or action by 
                        the Federal Trade Commission during the 180-day 
                        period ending on the date the employer would 
                        otherwise commence participation in the 
                        program.
                            (ii) That the employer has been in good 
                        standing with a State business bureau during 
                        the period described in clause (i).
                            (iii) That the employer is not delinquent 
                        with respect to payment of any taxes or 
                        employer contributions described under section 
                        3301 and 3302 (a)(1) of the Internal Revenue 
                        Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 3301 and 3302(a)(1)).
                            (iv) That the employer would not request 
                        the placement of an additional eligible 
                        individual under the program, if after such 
                        additional placement, the number of eligible 
                        individuals placed in internships at such 
                        employer under the program would constitute 
                        more than 10 percent of the eligible employer's 
                        workforce. For purposes of the previous 
                        sentence, being an intern under the program 
                        placed at an employer shall be considered part 
                        of the employer's workforce.
                            (v) That the employer has the intention of 
                        retaining eligible participants after such 
                        participants have completed participation in 
                        the program.
    (d) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the program during the 
three-year period beginning on the date of the commencement of the 
program.
    (e) Career Transition Services.--For purposes of the program, 
career transition services are the following:
            (1) Internships under subsection (f).
            (2) Mentorship and job-shadowing under subsection (g).
            (3) Volunteer opportunities under subsection (h).
            (4) Professional skill workshops under subsection (i).
            (5) Skills assessment under subsection (j).
            (6) Additional services under subsection (k).
    (f) Internships.--
            (1) In general.--For each eligible individual whom the 
        Secretary approves for participation in the program, the 
        Secretary shall attempt to place such eligible individual in an 
        internship on a full-time basis with an eligible employer whom 
        the Secretary has approved for participation in the program.
            (2) Duration.--Each internship under the program shall be 
        for a period of one year.
            (3) Wages.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall furnish pay 
                and benefits to each eligible individual participating 
                in an internship under the program for the duration of 
                such participation in an aggregate amount not to exceed 
                $25,000.
            (4) Employment status.--For purposes of the Patient 
        Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148), an 
        eligible individual placed in an internship with an eligible 
        employer under the program shall be considered an employee of 
        the Department of Veterans Affairs and not the eligible 
        employer during the period of such internship under the 
        program.
            (5) Relation to other federal assistance.--Notwithstanding 
        any other provision of law, pay received by an individual under 
        this subsection may not be used in any calculation to determine 
        the eligibility of such individual for any Federal program for 
        the purpose of obtaining child care assistance.
    (g) Mentorship and Job-Shadowing.--
            (1) In general.--As a condition of an eligible employer's 
        participation in the program and the placement of an eligible 
        individual in an internship at the eligible employer, the 
        eligible employer shall provide each eligible individual placed 
        in an internship at the eligible employer under the program 
        with at least one mentor who is an employee of the eligible 
        employer.
            (2) Job-shadowing and career counseling.--To the extent 
        practicable, a mentor assigned to an eligible individual 
        participating in the program shall provide such eligible 
        individual with job shadowing and career counseling.
    (h) Volunteer Opportunities.--
            (1) In general.--As a condition on participation in the 
        program, each eligible individual who participates in the 
        program shall, not less frequently than once each month in 
        which the eligible individual participates in the program, 
        engage in a qualifying volunteer activity in accordance with 
        guidelines the Secretary shall establish.
            (2) Qualifying volunteer activities.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, a qualifying volunteer activity is any activity the 
        Secretary considers related to providing assistance to, or for 
        the benefit of, a veteran. Such activities may include the 
        following:
                    (A) Outreach.
                    (B) Assisting an organization recognized by the 
                Secretary for the representation of veterans under 
                section 5902 of title 38, United States Code, on a 
                volunteer basis.
                    (C) Service benefitting a veteran in a State home 
                or a Department of Veterans Affairs medical facility.
                    (D) Service benefitting a veteran at an institution 
                of higher education.
    (i) Professional Skills Workshops.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall provide eligible 
        individuals participating in the program with workshops for the 
        development and improvement of the professional skills of such 
        eligible individuals.
            (2) Tailored.--The workshops provided by the Secretary 
        shall be tailored to meet the particular needs of eligible 
        individuals participating in the program as determined under 
        subsection (j).
            (3) Topics.--The workshops provided to eligible individuals 
        participating in the program may include workshops for the 
        development of such professional skills as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate, which may include the following:
                    (A) Written and oral communication skills.
                    (B) Basic word processing and other computer 
                skills.
                    (C) Interpersonal skills.
            (4) Manner of presentation.--Workshops on particular topics 
        shall be provided through such means as may be appropriate, 
        effective, and approved of by the Secretary for purposes of the 
        program. Such means may include use of electronic 
        communication.
            (5) Assessments.--The Secretary shall conduct an assessment 
        of a participant in a workshop conducted under this subsection 
        to assess the participant's knowledge acquired as a result of 
        participating in the workshop.
    (j) Skills Assessment.--
            (1) In general.--Under the program, the Secretary shall 
        develop and implement an objective assessment of eligible 
        individuals participating in the program to assist in the 
        placement of such individuals in internships under subsection 
        (f) and to assist in the tailoring of workshops under 
        subsection (i).
            (2) Elements.--The assessment may include an assessment of 
        the skill levels and service needs of each participant, which 
        may include a review of basic professional entry-level skills, 
        prior work experience, employability, and the individual's 
        interests.
    (k) Additional Services.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary shall, under the program, furnish the following 
        services to an eligible individual participating in the program 
        when assessment under subsection (j) indicates such services 
        are appropriate:
                    (A) Counseling, such as job counseling and career 
                counseling.
                    (B) Job search assistance.
                    (C) Follow-up services with participants that are 
                offered unsubsidized employment by the employer with 
                whom they were assigned.
                    (D) Transportation, as described in paragraph (3).
            (2) Referrals.--In lieu of furnishing a service to an 
        eligible individual under paragraph (1), the Secretary may 
        refer such eligible individual to another Federal, State, or 
        local government program that provides such service.
            (3) Transportation.--In accordance with criteria 
        established by the Secretary for purposes of the program, the 
        Secretary may pay an allowance based upon mileage, of any 
        eligible individual placed in an internship under the program 
        not in excess of 75 miles to or from a facility of the eligible 
        employer or other place in connection with such internship.
    (l) Participation.--
            (1) Application.--
                    (A) In general.--An eligible employer or eligible 
                individual seeking to participate in the program shall 
                submit to the Secretary an application therefor at such 
                time, in such manner, and containing such information 
                as the Secretary shall specify.
                    (B) Requirements for eligible employers.--An 
                application submitted by an eligible employer under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include a certification or other 
                information, in such form and manner as the Secretary 
                shall specify, on each of the assurances required by 
                subsection (c)(5)(C), including the assurance that the 
                employer has the intention of retaining eligible 
                participants after they have completed participation in 
                the program as provided in clause (v) of that 
                subsection.
            (2) Time of application for certain eligible individuals.--
        A member of the Armed Forces on active duty who expects to be 
        an eligible individual described in subsection (b)(1)(A) upon 
        discharge or release from the Armed Forces may submit an 
        application to participate in the program not earlier than 180 
        days before the date on which the member expects to be 
        discharged or released from the Armed Forces. A member who 
        submits such an application shall be treated as unemployed or 
        underemployed for purposes of subsection (b)(2) if the member 
        has not accepted an offer of employment after discharge or 
        release as of the time of the submittal of the application.
            (3) Delimiting date for commencement of participation by 
        individuals.--An eligible individual may not commence 
        participation in the program after the date that is two years 
        after the date of the commencement of the program.
            (4) Selection.--The Secretary shall review each application 
        submitted by an applicant under paragraph (1) and approve or 
        disapprove the applicant for participation in the program.
    (m) Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may award grants to eligible 
        entities to assist the Secretary in carrying out the program.
            (2) Eligible entities.--For purposes of the program, an 
        eligible entity is a nonprofit organization.
            (3) Considerations.--In awarding grants under this 
        subsection, the Secretary may consider whether an eligible 
        entity--
                    (A) has an understanding of the unemployment 
                problems of eligible individuals and members of the 
                Armed Forces transitioning from service in the Armed 
                Forces to civilian life; and
                    (B) has the capability to assist the Secretary in 
                administering effectively the program and providing 
                career transition services to eligible individuals.
            (4) Use of funds.--Amounts received by a recipient of a 
        grant under this subsection may be used as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate for purposes of the program, including as 
        follows:
                    (A) To assist the Secretary in carrying out the 
                program.
                    (B) To recruit eligible employers and eligible 
                individuals to participate in the program.
                    (C) To match eligible individuals participating in 
                the program with internship opportunities at eligible 
                employers participating in the program.
                    (D) To coordinate and carry out job placement and 
                other employer outreach activities.
    (n) Outreach.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the 
        Secretary of Labor shall jointly carry out a program of 
        outreach to inform eligible employers and eligible individuals 
        about the program and the benefits of participating in the 
        program.
            (2) Included locations and groups.--The Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Labor shall ensure that 
        any outreach program and activities conducted under paragraph 
        (1) include, to the extent practicable, rural communities, 
        tribal lands of the United States, Native Americans, and tribal 
        organizations (as defined in section 3765 of title 38, United 
        States Code).
    (o) Awards for Outstanding Contributions to Program.--
            (1) In general.--Each year of the program, the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs may recognize one or more eligible employers 
        or one or more eligible individuals participating in the 
        program for demonstrating outstanding achievement in carrying 
        out or in contributing to the success of the program.
            (2) Criteria.--The Secretary shall establish such selection 
        procedures and criteria as the Secretary considers appropriate 
        for the award of recognition under this subsection.
    (p) Minimization of Administrative Burden on Participating 
Employers.--The Secretary shall take such measures as may be necessary 
to minimize administrative burdens incurred by eligible employers due 
to participation in the program.
    (q) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 45 days after the 
        completion of the first year of the program and not later than 
        180 days after the completion of the second and third years of 
        the program, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on 
        the program.
            (2) Contents.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) An evaluation of the program.
                    (B) The number and characteristics of participants 
                in the program.
                    (C) The number and types of internships in which 
                eligible individuals were placed under the program.
                    (D) The number of individuals who obtained long-
                term full-time unsubsidized employment positions after 
                participation in the program, the hourly wage and 
                nature of such employment, and if available, whether 
                such individuals were still employed in such positions 
                three months after obtaining such positions.
                    (E) An assessment of the feasibility and 
                advisability of providing career transition services to 
                eligible individuals.
                    (F) An assessment of the effect of the program on 
                earnings of eligible individuals and the employment of 
                eligible individuals.
                    (G) Such recommendations for legislative and 
                administrative action as the Secretary may have to 
                improve the program, to expand the program, or to 
                improve the employment of eligible individuals.
    (r) Funding Limitations.--
            (1) Wages for internships.--Not less than 95 percent of 
        amounts authorized to be appropriated for the program by 
        subsection (t) shall be used to provide pay under subsection 
        (f)(3).
            (2) Administration.--Not more than 5 percent of amounts 
        authorized to be appropriated for the program by subsection (t) 
        may be used to administer the program.
    (s) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Active duty, armed forces, reserve component, and 
        veteran.--The terms ``active duty'', ``Armed Forces'', 
        ``reserve component'', and ``veteran'' have the meanings given 
        such terms in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
            (2) Full-time basis.--The term ``full-time basis'', with 
        respect to an internship, means participation in the internship 
        of not fewer than 30 hours per week and not more than 40 hours 
        per week.
            (3) Small business concern.--The term ``small business 
        concern'' has the meaning given that term under section 3(a) of 
        the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(a)).
            (4) Unemployment compensation.--The term ``unemployment 
        compensation'' means regular compensation (as defined in 
        section 205 of the Federal-State Extended Unemployment 
        Compensation Act of 1970), compensation under the Federal-State 
        Extended Compensation Act of 1970, and compensation under the 
        emergency unemployment compensation program under title IV of 
        the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2008.
    (t) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is hereby authorized to 
be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 for the Department of Veterans 
Affairs, $600,000,000 to carry out this section. The amount so 
authorized to be appropriated shall remain available until expended.

Subtitle D--Improving Employment and Reemployment Rights of Members of 
                         the Uniformed Services

SEC. 431. ENFORCEMENT OF RIGHTS OF MEMBERS OF UNIFORMED SERVICES WITH 
              RESPECT TO STATES AND PRIVATE EMPLOYERS.

    (a) Action for Relief.--Subsection (a) of section 4323 is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``appear on behalf of, and act as 
                attorney for, the person on whose behalf the complaint 
                is submitted and'';
                    (B) by striking ``for such person'';
                    (C) by striking the fourth sentence; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following: ``The 
                person on whose behalf the complaint is referred may, 
                upon timely application, intervene in such action, and 
                may obtain such appropriate relief as is provided in 
                subsections (d) and (e).'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph (2):
    ``(2)(A) Not later than 60 days after the date the Attorney General 
receives a referral under paragraph (1), the Attorney General shall 
transmit, in writing, to the person on whose behalf the complaint is 
submitted--
            ``(i) if the Attorney General has made a decision to 
        commence an action for relief under paragraph (1) relating to 
        the complaint of the person, notice of the decision; and
            ``(ii) if the Attorney General has not made such a 
        decision, notice of when the Attorney General expects to make 
        such a decision.
    ``(B) If the Attorney General notifies a person that the Attorney 
General expects to make a decision under subparagraph (A)(ii), the 
Attorney General shall, not later than 30 days after the date on which 
the Attorney General makes such decision, notify, in writing, the 
person of such decision.'';
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);
            (4) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
        paragraph (3):
    ``(3) Whenever the Attorney General has reasonable cause to believe 
that a State (as an employer) or a private employer is engaged in a 
pattern or practice of resistance to the full enjoyment of any of the 
rights and benefits provided for under this chapter, and that the 
pattern or practice is of such a nature and is intended to deny the 
full exercise of such rights and benefits, the Attorney General may 
commence an action for relief under this chapter.''; and
            (5) in paragraph (4), as redesignated by paragraph (3), by 
        striking subparagraph (C) and inserting the following new 
        subparagraph (C):
            ``(C) has been notified by the Attorney General that the 
        Attorney General does not intend to commence an action for 
        relief under paragraph (1) with respect to the complaint under 
        such paragraph.''.
    (b) Standing.--Subsection (f) of such section is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(f) Standing.--An action under this chapter may be initiated only 
by the Attorney General or by a person claiming rights or benefits 
under this chapter under subsection (a).''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (h)(2) of such section is 
amended by striking ``under subsection (a)(2)'' and inserting ``under 
paragraph (1) or (4) of subsection (a)''.

SEC. 432. SUSPENSION, TERMINATION, OR DEBARMENT OF CONTRACTORS FOR 
              REPEATED VIOLATIONS OF EMPLOYMENT OR REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS 
              OF MEMBERS OF UNIFORMED SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 43 is amended by adding 
at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 4328. Suspension, termination, or debarment of contractors
    ``(a) Grounds for Suspension, Termination, or Debarment.--Payment 
under a contract awarded by a Federal executive agency may be suspended 
and the contract may be terminated, and the contractor who made the 
contract with the agency may be suspended or debarred in accordance 
with the requirements of this section, if the head of the agency 
determines that the contractor as an employer has repeatedly been 
convicted of failing or refusing to comply with one or more provisions 
of this chapter.
    ``(b) Effect of Debarment.--A contractor debarred by a final 
decision under this section is ineligible for award of a contract by a 
Federal executive agency, and for participation in a future procurement 
by a Federal executive agency, for a period specified in the decision, 
not to exceed 5 years.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 43 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
4327 the following new item:

``4328. Suspension, termination, or debarment of contractor.''.
    (c) Regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council shall 
amend the Federal Acquisition Regulation to carry out section 4328 of 
title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a).
    (d) Effective Date.--Section 4328 of title 38, United States Code, 
as added by subsection (a), shall apply with respect to failures and 
refusals to comply with provisions of chapter 43 of title 38, United 
States Code, occurring on or after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (e) Annual Report.--Section 4332(a) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (10) as paragraph (11); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (9) the following new 
        paragraph (10):
            ``(10) The number of suspensions, terminations, and 
        debarments under section 4328 of this title, disaggregated by 
        the agency or department imposing the suspension or 
        debarment.''.

SEC. 433. SUBPOENA POWER FOR SPECIAL COUNSEL IN ENFORCEMENT OF 
              EMPLOYMENT AND REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS OF MEMBERS OF 
              UNIFORMED SERVICES WITH RESPECT TO FEDERAL EXECUTIVE 
              AGENCIES.

    Section 4324 is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e)(1) In order to carry out the Special Counsel's 
responsibilities under this section, the Special Counsel may require by 
subpoena the attendance and testimony of Federal employees and the 
production of documents from Federal employees and Federal executive 
agencies.
    ``(2) In the case of contumacy or failure to obey a subpoena issued 
under paragraph (1), upon application by the Special Counsel, the Merit 
Systems Protection Board may issue an order requiring a Federal 
employee or Federal executive agency to comply with a subpoena of the 
Special Counsel.
    ``(3) An order issued under paragraph (2) may be enforced by the 
Merit Systems Protection Board in the same manner as any order issued 
under section 1204 of title 5.''.

SEC. 434. ISSUANCE AND SERVICE OF CIVIL INVESTIGATIVE DEMANDS BY 
              ATTORNEY GENERAL.

    (a) In General.--Section 4323 is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (i) as subsection (j); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (h) the following new 
        subsection (i):
    ``(i) Issuance and Service of Civil Investigative Demands.--(1) 
Whenever the Attorney General has reason to believe that any person may 
be in possession, custody, or control of any documentary material 
relevant to an investigation under this subchapter, the Attorney 
General may, before commencing a civil action under subsection (a), 
issue in writing and serve upon such person, a civil investigative 
demand requiring--
            ``(A) the production of such documentary material for 
        inspection and copying;
            ``(B) that the custodian of such documentary material 
        answer in writing written questions with respect to such 
        documentary material; or
            ``(C) the production of any combination of such documentary 
        material or answers.
    ``(2) The provisions of section 3733 of title 31 governing the 
authority to issue, use, and enforce civil investigative demands shall 
apply with respect to the authority to issue, use, and enforce civil 
investigative demands under this section, except that, for purposes of 
applying such section 3733--
            ``(A) references to false claims law investigators or 
        investigations shall be considered references to investigators 
        or investigations under this subchapter;
            ``(B) references to interrogatories shall be considered 
        references to written questions, and answers to such need not 
        be under oath;
            ``(C) the definitions relating to `false claims law' shall 
        not apply; and
            ``(D) provisions relating to qui tam relators shall not 
        apply.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (i) of section 4323 of title 38, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a)(2), shall take effect on 
the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply with respect to 
violations of chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code, alleged to 
have occurred on or after such date.
    (c) Annual Reports.--Section 4332(b)(2) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Not later than'' and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(B) Annual supplement on civil investigative 
                demands.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The Attorney General 
                        shall include with each report submitted under 
                        subparagraph (A) for the last quarter of each 
                        fiscal year a report on the issuance of civil 
                        investigative demands under section 4323(i) of 
                        this title during the most recently completed 
                        fiscal year.
                            ``(ii) Elements.--Each report submitted 
                        under clause (i) shall include the following 
                        for the fiscal year covered by the report:
                                    ``(I) The number of times that a 
                                civil investigative demand was issued 
                                under section 4323(i) of this title.
                                    ``(II) For each civil investigative 
                                demand issued under such section with 
                                respect to an investigation, whether 
                                such investigation resulted in a 
                                settlement, order, or judgment.''.

                   Subtitle E--Small Business Matters

SEC. 441. EXPANSION OF CONTRACTING GOALS AND PREFERENCES OF DEPARTMENT 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO INCLUDE CONDITIONALLY OWNED SMALL 
              BUSINESS CONCERNS 100 PERCENT OWNED BY VETERANS.

    Section 8127(l) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``unconditionally'' 
        before ``owned by'' each place it appears; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) The term `unconditionally owned' includes, with 
        respect to ownership of a small business concern, conditional 
        ownership of such small business concern if such business 
        concern is 100 percent owned by one or more veterans.''.

SEC. 442. MODIFICATION OF TREATMENT UNDER CONTRACTING GOALS AND 
              PREFERENCES OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS FOR SMALL 
              BUSINESSES OWNED BY VETERANS OF SMALL BUSINESSES AFTER 
              DEATH OF DISABLED VETERAN OWNERS.

    (a) In General.--Section 8127(h) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``rated as'' and all that 
        follows through ``disability.'' and inserting a period; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by amending subparagraph (C) to read 
        as follows:
            ``(C) The date that--
                    ``(i) in the case of a surviving spouse of a 
                veteran with a service-connected disability rated as 
                100 percent disabling or who dies as a result of a 
                service-connected disability, is 10 years after the 
                date of the veteran's death; or
                    ``(ii) in the case of a surviving spouse of a 
                veteran with a service-connected disability rated as 
                less than 100 percent disabling who does not die as a 
                result of a service-connected disability, is three 
                years after the date of the veteran's death.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date that is 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and shall apply with respect to applications 
received pursuant to section 8127(f)(2) of title 38, United States 
Code, that are verified on or after such date.

SEC. 443. TREATMENT OF BUSINESSES AFTER DEATHS OF SERVICEMEMBER-OWNERS 
              FOR PURPOSES OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
              CONTRACTING GOALS AND PREFERENCES.

    (a) In General.--Section 8127 is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (i) through (l) as 
        subsections (j) through (m), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (h) the following new 
        subsection (i):
    ``(i) Treatment of Businesses After Death of Servicemember-Owner.--
(1) If a member of the Armed Forces owns at least 51 percent of a small 
business concern and such member is killed in line of duty in the 
active military, naval, or air service, the surviving spouse or 
dependent child of such member who acquires such ownership rights in 
such small business concern shall, for the period described in 
paragraph (2), be treated as if the surviving spouse or dependent child 
were a veteran with a service-connected disability for purposes of 
determining the status of the small business concern as a small 
business concern owned and controlled by veterans for purposes of 
contracting goals and preferences under this section.
    ``(2) The period referred to in paragraph (1) is the period 
beginning on the date on which the member of the Armed Forces dies and 
ending on the date as follows:
            ``(A) In the case of a surviving spouse, the earliest of 
        the following dates:
                    ``(i) The date on which the surviving spouse 
                remarries.
                    ``(ii) The date on which the surviving spouse 
                relinquishes an ownership interest in the small 
                business concern and no longer owns at least 51 percent 
                of such small business concern.
                    ``(iii) The date that is ten years after the date 
                of the member's death.
            ``(B) In the case of a dependent child, the earliest of the 
        following dates:
                    ``(i) The date on which the surviving dependent 
                child relinquishes an ownership interest in the small 
                business concern and no longer owns at least 51 percent 
                of such small business concern.
                    ``(ii) The date that is ten years after the date of 
                the member's death.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (i) of section 8127 of title 38, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on 
the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply with respect to 
the deaths of members of the Armed Forces occurring on or after such 
date.

SEC. 444. SPECIAL RULE FOR TREATMENT UNDER CONTRACTING GOALS AND 
              PREFERENCES OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OF SMALL 
              BUSINESS CONCERNS LICENSED IN COMMUNITY PROPERTY STATES.

    Section 8127, as amended by section 443 of this Act, is further 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(n) Special Rule for Community Property States.--Whenever the 
Secretary assesses, for purposes of this section, the degree of 
ownership by an individual of a small business concern licensed in a 
community property State, the Secretary shall also assess what that 
degree of ownership would be if such small business concern had been 
licensed in a State other than a community property State. If the 
Secretary determines that such individual would have had a greater 
degree of ownership of the small business concern had such small 
business concern been licensed in a State other than a community 
property State, the Secretary shall treat, for purposes of this 
section, such small business concern as if it had been licensed in a 
State other than a community property State.''.

SEC. 445. REPORT ON ASSISTANCE FOR VETERANS IN OBTAINING TRAINING ON 
              PURCHASING AND OPERATING A FRANCHISE.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the effective 
date specified in subsection (c), the Secretary of Labor shall, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Administrator 
of the Small Business Administration, and other appropriate entities, 
submit to Congress a report on the assistance available to veterans to 
obtain training necessary to purchase and operate a franchise.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) A description of the assistance available for veterans 
        through the Department of Labor, the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs, the Small Business Administration, or any other agency 
        of the Federal Government in order to obtain training necessary 
        to purchase or operate a franchise.
            (2) Information on the number of veterans who have sought 
        and obtained the training described in paragraph (1) during the 
        five calendar years preceding the report.
            (3) A description of any barriers encountered by veterans 
        in obtaining the training described in paragraph (1).
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

        TITLE V--ACCOUNTABILITY AND ADMINISTRATIVE IMPROVEMENTS

SEC. 501. ADMINISTRATION OF VETERANS INTEGRATED SERVICE NETWORKS.

    (a) Veterans Integrated Service Networks.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 73 is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7310. Veterans Integrated Service Networks
    ``(a) Organization.--(1) The Secretary shall organize the Veterans 
Health Administration in geographically defined Veterans Integrated 
Service Networks.
    ``(2) Each Veterans Integrated Service Network shall be organized 
in consideration of the following:
            ``(A) The size of the veteran population of the region of 
        the network.
            ``(B) The complexity of the medical needs of the veterans 
        in such region.
            ``(C) Patient referral patterns.
            ``(D) The availability of a full continuum of health care 
        services.
            ``(E) The ability of the Department to furnish health care 
        efficiently.
            ``(F) Partnerships with non-Department health care 
        entities.
    ``(b) Staffing Model.--(1) The Secretary shall establish a staffing 
model for each Veterans Integrated Service Network that--
            ``(A) is appropriate for the mission and responsibilities 
        of the Veterans Integrated Service Network; and
            ``(B) accounts for the specific health care needs of 
        differing populations in the Veterans Integrated Service 
        Network.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall ensure that each Veterans Integrated 
Service Network complies with the staffing model established by the 
Secretary under paragraph (1) for such Veterans Integrated Service 
Network.
    ``(c) Integrated Health Care System.--The Secretary shall ensure 
that each Veterans Integrated Service Network maintains a regional 
integrated healthcare system by--
            ``(1) implementing alliances with such other governmental, 
        public, and private health care organizations and practitioners 
        as the Secretary considers appropriate to meet the needs of 
        veterans in the Network;
            ``(2) providing oversight and management of, and taking 
        responsibility for, a regional budget for the activities of the 
        Veterans Health Administration in the geographic area of the 
        Network that is--
                    ``(A) aligned with the budget guidelines of the 
                Department and the Veterans Health Administration;
                    ``(B) balanced at the end of each fiscal year; and
                    ``(C) sufficient to provide high-quality health 
                care to veterans within the region and to meet any 
                unique needs of the veterans of the region;
            ``(3) using national metrics to develop systems to provide 
        effective, efficient, and safe delivery of health care; and
            ``(4) ensuring high-quality clinical programs and services 
        are rendered in and through--
                    ``(A) the medical centers and outpatient clinics of 
                the Department that are located in the Network; and
                    ``(B) other non-Department clinical or health care 
                delivery settings located in the Network.
    ``(d) Reduction in Duplicate Functions.--The Secretary shall ensure 
that the Veterans Integrated Service Networks identify and reduce, 
whenever practicable, the duplication of functions in clinical, 
administrative, and operational processes and practices of the Veterans 
Health Administration.
    ``(e) Collaboration and Cooperation.--The Secretary shall ensure 
that each Veterans Integrated Service Network--
            ``(1) works to achieve maximum effectiveness in patient 
        care and safety, graduate medical education, and research; and
            ``(2) assesses the consolidation or realignment of 
        institutional functions, including capital asset, safety, and 
        operational support functions, in collaboration and cooperation 
        with other Veterans Integrated Service Networks and the 
        following offices or entities within the geographical area of 
        the Network:
                    ``(A) The offices of the Veterans Benefits 
                Administration and the National Cemetery 
                Administration.
                    ``(B) The offices, installations, and facilities of 
                the Department of Defense, including the offices, 
                installations, and facilities of each branch of the 
                Armed Forces and the reserve components of the Armed 
                Forces.
                    ``(C) The offices, installations, and facilities of 
                the Coast Guard.
                    ``(D) Offices of State and local agencies that have 
                a mission to provide assistance to veterans.
                    ``(E) Medical schools and other affiliates.
                    ``(F) Offices of Congress, offices of State and 
                local elected officials, and other government offices.
                    ``(G) Federal, State, and local emergency 
                preparedness organizations.
                    ``(H) Community and nonprofit organizations.
                    ``(I) Such other entities of the Federal Government 
                as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    ``(f) Headquarters.--(1) The Secretary shall ensure that each 
Veterans Integrated Service Network has only one headquarters office.
    ``(2) The location of a headquarters office for a Veterans 
Integrated Service Network shall be determined by the Secretary and co-
located with a Department of Veterans Affairs medical center.
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary may employ or contract for the services of 
such full time equivalent employees and contractors at the headquarters 
of each Veterans Integrated Service Network as the Secretary considers 
appropriate in accordance with the staffing models established under 
subsection (b).
    ``(B) Not later than December 31 each year, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report 
on employment at the headquarters of Veterans Integrated Service 
Networks during the most recently completed fiscal year.
    ``(C) Each report submitted under subparagraph (B) shall include 
the following for the year covered by the report:
            ``(i) The number of individuals employed at each 
        headquarters of a Veterans Integrated Service Network.
            ``(ii) The number of individuals employed by the Veterans 
        Health Administration in each Veterans Integrated Service 
        Network who are not employed at the same location as the 
        headquarters of the Network.
            ``(iii) The title for each position of employment at a 
        headquarters of a Veterans Integrated Service Network.
            ``(iv) The title for each position of employment with the 
        Veterans Health Administration in each Veterans Integrated 
        Service Network that is not at the same location as the 
        headquarters of the Network.
            ``(v) An assessment of the impact on the budget of the 
        Department by the employment of individuals at the headquarters 
        of the Veterans Integrated Service Networks.
    ``(g) Triennial Structure Review, Reassessment, and Report.--(1) 
Beginning three years after the date of the enactment of this section 
and not less frequently than once every three years thereafter, the 
Secretary shall conduct a review and assessment of the structure and 
operations of the Veterans Integrated Service Networks in order to 
identify recommendations--
            ``(A) for streamlining and reducing costs associated with 
        the operation of each headquarters of a Veterans Integrated 
        Service Network; and
            ``(B) for reducing costs of health care within the Veterans 
        Health Administration.
    ``(2) Not later than 180 days after conducting a review and 
assessment under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committee of Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on such 
review and assessment, which shall include such recommendations for 
legislative or administrative action as the Secretary considers 
appropriate to improve the Veterans Integrated Service Networks.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 73 is amended by inserting after the item 
        relating to section 7309 the following new item:

``7310. Veterans Integrated Service Networks.''.
    (b) Relocation of Headquarters.--
            (1) In general.--In the case of a headquarters office of a 
        Veterans Integrated Service Network that on the day before the 
        date of the enactment of this Act was in a location that was 
        not co-located with a Department of Veterans Affairs medical 
        center and the Secretary is engaged in a lease for such 
        location, the Secretary may--
                    (A) relocate such headquarters upon the expiration 
                of such lease so that such headquarters is co-located 
                as required by section 7310(f)(2) of title 38, United 
                States Code (as added by subsection (a)(1)); or
                    (B) notwithstanding such section 7310(f)(2) (as so 
                added), renew such lease or enter into a new lease to 
                keep such headquarters in such location.
            (2) Report.--If the Secretary renews a lease or engages in 
        a new lease under paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary shall submit 
        to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives, 
        before renewing such lease or engaging in such lease, a report 
        describing the reasons for such renewal or engagement. Such 
        report shall include the following:
                    (A) A list of Department of Veterans Affairs 
                medical centers in the Veterans Integrated Service 
                Network of the headquarters with underutilized 
                buildings, the number of such buildings, and the total 
                underutilized square footage for each such medical 
                center.
                    (B) The cost of the current lease (the annual 
                amount of rent, the total cost over the life of the 
                lease, and the total cost per square foot) and the 
                current square footage being leased.
                    (C) The cost of the new lease (the annual amount of 
                rent, the total cost over the life of the lease, and 
                the total cost per square foot) and the square footage 
                to be leased.
    (c) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
require any change in the location or type of medical care or service 
provided by a Department of Veterans Affairs medical center, a 
Department community based outpatient clinic, a center for readjustment 
counseling and related mental health services for veterans under 
section 1712A of title 38, United States Code (known as a ``vet 
center''), or other facility that provides direct care or services 
under a law administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section, and the amendments made by this 
section, shall take effect on the date that is one year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 502. REGIONAL SUPPORT CENTERS FOR VETERANS INTEGRATED SERVICE 
              NETWORKS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 73, as amended by section 
501(a)(1) of this Act, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:
``Sec. 7310A. Regional support centers for Veterans Integrated Service 
              Networks
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish not more than 
four regional support centers within the Veterans Health Administration 
to assess the effectiveness and efficiency of the Veterans Integrated 
Service Networks. The head of each regional support center shall report 
to the Under Secretary of Health.
    ``(b) Functions.--The functions of the regional support centers 
established under subsection (a) are as follows:
            ``(1) To assess the quality of work performed within 
        finance operations and other compliance related activities of 
        the Veterans Integrated Service Networks.
            ``(2) To assess how effectively and efficiently each 
        Veterans Integrated Service Network conducts outreach to 
        veterans who served in Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation 
        Iraqi Freedom, Operation New Dawn, or any other contingency 
        operation (as that term is defined in section 101 of title 10).
            ``(3) To assess how effectively and efficiently each 
        Veterans Integrated Service Network conducts programs for the 
        benefit of women veterans.
            ``(4) To assess how effectively and efficiently each 
        Veterans Integrated Service Network conducts programs that 
        address homelessness among veterans.
            ``(5) To assess how effectively and efficiently each 
        Veterans Integrated Service Network consumes energy.
            ``(6) To assess such other matters concerning the 
        operations and activities of the Veterans Integrated Service 
        Networks as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    ``(c) Staff.--The Secretary may hire such employees and contractors 
as the Secretary considers appropriate to carry out the functions of 
the regional support centers.
    ``(d) Location of Regional Support Centers.--(1) Except as provided 
in paragraph (2), the location of each regional support center 
established under subsection (a) shall be determined by the Secretary 
and co-located with a medical center of the Department.
    ``(2) The Secretary may choose a location for a regional support 
center established under subsection (a) that is not co-located with a 
medical center of the Department if the Secretary submits to the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives, before entering into 
a contract for a location that is not co-located with a medical center, 
a report describing the reasons for choosing a location for the 
regional support center that is not co-located with a medical center of 
the Department. Such report shall include the following:
            ``(A) A list of medical centers of the Department in the 
        Veterans Integrated Service Network of the regional support 
        center with underutilized buildings, the number of all Veterans 
        Health Administration buildings in such Network, and the total 
        underutilized square footage for each medical center of the 
        Department in such Network.
            ``(B) The estimated cost of such lease (the annual amount 
        of rent, the total cost over the life of the lease, and the 
        total cost per square foot) and the square footage to be 
        leased.''.
    (b) Initial Staffing.--In providing for the initial staff of each 
regional support center established under section 7310A(a) of title 38, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall, to the degree practicable, transfer employees 
from headquarters of Veterans Integrated Service Networks to regional 
support centers who were employed in positions at such headquarters 
that covered functions similar to those described in section 7310A(b) 
of such title, as so added.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 73, as amended by section 501(a)(2) of this Act, is further 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 7310 the 
following new item:

``7310A. Regional support centers for Veterans Integrated Service 
                            Networks.''.
    (d) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
require any change in the location or type of medical care or service 
provided by a Department of Veterans Affairs medical center, a 
Department community based outpatient clinic, a center for readjustment 
counseling and related mental health services for veterans under 
section 1712A of title 38, United States Code (known as a ``vet 
center''), or other facility that provides direct care or services 
under a law administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    (e) Effective Date.--This section, and the amendments made by this 
section, shall take effect on the date that is one year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 503. COMMISSION ON CAPITAL PLANNING FOR DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITIES.

    (a) Establishment of Commission.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established the Commission on 
        Capital Planning for Department of Veterans Affairs Medical 
        Facilities (in this section referred to as the ``Commission'').
            (2) Membership.--
                    (A) Voting members.--The Commission shall, subject 
                to subparagraph (B), be composed of 10 voting members 
                as follows:
                            (i) 1 shall be appointed by the President.
                            (ii) 1 shall be appointed by the 
                        Administrator of General Services.
                            (iii) 3 shall be appointed by the Secretary 
                        of Veterans Affairs, of whom--
                                    (I) 1 shall be an employee of the 
                                Veterans Health Administration;
                                    (II) 1 shall be an employee of the 
                                Office of Asset Enterprise Management 
                                of the Department of Veterans Affairs; 
                                and
                                    (III) 1 shall be an employee of the 
                                Office of Construction and Facilities 
                                Management of the Department of 
                                Veterans Affairs.
                            (iv) 1 shall be appointed by the Secretary 
                        of Defense from among employees of the Army 
                        Corps of Engineers.
                            (v) 1 shall be appointed by the majority 
                        leader of the Senate.
                            (vi) 1 shall be appointed by the minority 
                        leader of the Senate.
                            (vii) 1 shall be appointed by the Speaker 
                        of the House of Representatives.
                            (viii) 1 shall be appointed by the minority 
                        leader of the House of Representatives.
                    (B) Requirement relating to certain appointments of 
                voting members.--Of the members appointed pursuant to 
                clause (i), (ii), and (iv) through (viii) of 
                subparagraph (A), all shall have expertise in capital 
                leasing, construction, or health facility management 
                planning.
                    (C) Non-voting members.--The Commission shall be 
                assisted by 10 non-voting members, appointed by the 
                vote of a majority of members of the Commission under 
                subparagraph (A), of whom--
                            (i) 6 shall be representatives of veterans 
                        service organizations recognized by the 
                        Secretary of Veterans Affairs; and
                            (ii) 4 shall be individuals from outside 
                        the Department of Veterans Affairs with 
                        experience and expertise in matters relating to 
                        management, construction, and leasing of 
                        capital assets.
                    (D) Date of appointment of voting members.--The 
                appointments of the members of the Commission under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be made not later than 60 days 
                after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (3) Period of appointment; vacancies.--Members shall be 
        appointed for the life of the Commission. Any vacancy in the 
        Commission shall not affect its powers, but shall be filled in 
        the same manner as the original appointment.
            (4) Initial meeting.--Not later than 15 days after the date 
        on which 7 members of the Commission have been appointed, the 
        Commission shall hold its first meeting.
            (5) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of the 
        Chair.
            (6) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Commission 
        shall constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may 
        hold hearings.
            (7) Chair and vice chair.--The Commission shall select a 
        Chair and Vice Chair from among its members.
    (b) Duties of Commission.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall undertake a 
        comprehensive evaluation and assessment of various options for 
        capital planning for Department of Veterans Affairs medical 
        facilities, including an evaluation and assessment of the 
        mechanisms by which the Department currently selects means for 
        the delivery of health care, whether by major construction, 
        major medical facility leases, sharing agreements with the 
        Department of Defense, the Indian Health Service, and Federally 
        Qualified Health Clinics under section 330 of the Public Health 
        Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b), contract care, multisite care, 
        telemedicine, extended hours for care, or other means.
            (2) Context of evaluation and assessment.--In undertaking 
        the evaluation and assessment, the Commission shall consider--
                    (A) the importance of access to health care through 
                the Department, including associated guidelines of the 
                Department on access to, and drive time for, health 
                care;
                    (B) limitations and requirements applicable to the 
                construction and leasing of medical facilities for the 
                Department, including applicable laws, regulations, and 
                costs as determined by both the Congressional Budget 
                Office and the Office of Management and Budget;
                    (C) the nature of capital planning for Department 
                medical facilities in an era of fiscal uncertainty;
                    (D) projected future fluctuations in the population 
                of veterans; and
                    (E) the extent to which the Department was able to 
                meet the mandates of the Capital Asset Realignment for 
                Enhanced Services Commission.
            (3) Particular considerations.--In undertaking the 
        evaluation and assessment, the Commission shall address, in 
        particular, the following:
                    (A) The Major Medical Facility Lease Program of the 
                Department, including an identification of potential 
                improvements to the lease authorization processes under 
                that Program.
                    (B) The management processes of the Department for 
                its Major Medical Facility Construction Program, 
                including processes relating to contract award and 
                management, project management, and processing of 
                change orders.
                    (C) The overall capital planning program of the 
                Department for medical facilities, including an 
                evaluation and assessment of--
                            (i) the manner in which the Department 
                        determines whether to use capital or non-
                        capital means to expand access to health care;
                            (ii) the manner in which the Department 
                        determines the disposition of under-utilized 
                        and un-utilized buildings on campuses of 
                        Department medical centers, and any barriers to 
                        disposition;
                            (iii) the effectiveness of the facility 
                        master planning initiative of the Department; 
                        and
                            (iv) the extent to which sustainable 
                        attributes are planned for to decrease 
                        operating costs for Department medical 
                        facilities.
                    (D) The current backlog of construction projects 
                for Department medical facilities, including an 
                identification of the most effective means to quickly 
                secure the most critical repairs required, including 
                repairs relating to facility condition deficiencies, 
                structural safety, and compliance with the Americans 
                With Disabilities Act of 1990.
            (4) Reports.--Subject to paragraph (5), the Commission 
        shall submit to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and to the 
        Committee Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives, reports as 
        follows:
                    (A) Not later than six months after its initial 
                meeting under subsection (a)(4), a report on the Major 
                Medical Facility Lease Program and the Congressional 
                lease authorization process.
                    (B) Not later than one year after its initial 
                meeting, a report--
                            (i) on the management processes of the 
                        Department for the construction of Department 
                        medical facilities; and
                            (ii) setting forth an update of any matters 
                        covered in the report under subparagraph (A).
                    (C) Not later than 18 months after its initial 
                meeting, a report--
                            (i) on the overall capital planning program 
                        of the Department for medical facilities; and
                            (ii) setting forth an update of any matters 
                        covered in earlier reports under this 
                        paragraph.
                    (D) Not later than two years after its initial 
                meeting, a report--
                            (i) on the current backlog of construction 
                        projects for Department medical facilities;
                            (ii) setting forth an update of any matters 
                        covered in earlier reports under this 
                        paragraph; and
                            (iii) including such other matters relating 
                        to the duties of the Commission that the 
                        Commission considers appropriate.
                    (E) Not later than 27 months after its initial 
                meeting, a report on the implementation by the 
                Secretary of Veterans Affairs pursuant to subsection 
                (g) of the recommendations included pursuant to 
                paragraph (5) in the reports under this paragraph.
            (5) Recommendations.--Each report under paragraph (4) shall 
        include, for the aspect of the capital asset planning process 
        of the Department covered by such report, such recommendations 
        as the Commission considers appropriate for the improvement and 
        enhancement of such aspect of the capital asset planning 
        process.
    (c) Powers of Commission.--
            (1) Hearings.--The Commission may hold such hearings, sit 
        and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and 
        receive such evidence as the Commission considers advisable to 
        carry out this section.
            (2) Information from federal agencies.--The Commission may 
        secure directly from any Federal department or agency such 
        information as the Commission considers necessary to carry out 
        this section. Upon request of the Chair of the Commission, the 
        head of such department or agency shall furnish such 
        information to the Commission.
    (d) Commission Personnel Matters.--
            (1) Compensation of members.--Each member of the Commission 
        who is not an officer or employee of the Federal Government 
        shall be compensated at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of 
        the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level IV of the 
        Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States 
        Code, for each day (including travel time) during which such 
        member is engaged in the performance of the duties of the 
        Commission. All members of the Commission who are officers or 
        employees of the United States shall serve without compensation 
        in addition to that received for their services as officers or 
        employees of the United States.
            (2) Travel expenses.--The members of the Commission shall 
        be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of agencies 
        under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
        Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business 
        in the performance of services for the Commission.
            (3) Staff.--
                    (A) In general.--The Chair of the Commission may, 
                without regard to the civil service laws and 
                regulations, appoint and terminate an executive 
                director and such other additional personnel as may be 
                necessary to enable the Commission to perform its 
                duties. The employment of an executive director shall 
                be subject to confirmation by the Commission.
                    (B) Compensation.--The Chair of the Commission may 
                fix the compensation of the executive director and 
                other personnel without regard to chapter 51 and 
                subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States 
                Code, relating to classification of positions and 
                General Schedule pay rates, except that the rate of pay 
                for the executive director and other personnel may not 
                exceed the rate payable for level V of the Executive 
                Schedule under section 5316 of such title.
            (4) Detail of government employees.--Any Federal Government 
        employee may be detailed to the Commission without 
        reimbursement, and such detail shall be without interruption or 
        loss of civil service status or privilege.
            (5) Procurement of temporary and intermittent services.--
        The Chair of the Commission may procure temporary and 
        intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United 
        States Code, at rates for individuals which do not exceed the 
        daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for 
        level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such 
        title.
    (e) Termination of Commission.--The Commission shall terminate 60 
days after the date on which the Commission submits its report under 
subsection (b)(4)(E).
    (f) Funding.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall make 
available to the Commission such amounts as the Secretary and the Chair 
of the Commission jointly consider appropriate for the Commission to 
perform its duties under this section.
    (g) Action on Recommendations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
        implement each recommendation included in a report under 
        subsection (b)(4) that the Secretary considers feasible and 
        advisable and can be implemented without further legislative 
        action.
            (2) Reports.--Not later than 120 days after receipt of a 
        report under subparagraphs (A) through (D) of subsection 
        (b)(4), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee Veterans' 
        Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
        the House of Representatives a report setting forth the 
        following:
                    (A) An assessment of the feasibility and 
                advisability of each recommendation contained in such 
                report.
                    (B) For each recommendation assessed as feasible 
                and advisable--
                            (i) if such recommendation does not require 
                        further legislative action for implementation, 
                        a description of the actions taken, and to be 
                        taken, by the Secretary to implement such 
                        recommendation; and
                            (ii) if such recommendation requires 
                        further legislative action for implementation, 
                        recommendations for such legislative action.

SEC. 504. ADVANCE APPROPRIATIONS FOR CERTAIN ACCOUNTS OF THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Section 117 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``medical care accounts of the Department'' 
        each place it appears and inserting ``covered accounts of the 
        Department'';
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking ``medical care accounts of the 
                Veterans Health Administration, Department of Veterans 
                Affairs account'' and inserting ``accounts of the 
                Department of Veterans Affairs account'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``Veterans 
                Health Administration,'' after ``(1)'';
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``Veterans 
                Health Administration,'' after ``(2)'';
                    (D) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``Veterans 
                Health Administration,'' after ``(3)'';
                    (E) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (3) as 
                paragraphs (7) through (9), respectively;
                    (F) by inserting before paragraph (7), as 
                redesignated by subparagraph (E), the following new 
                paragraphs:
            ``(1) Veterans Benefits Administration, Compensation and 
        Pensions.
            ``(2) Veterans Benefits Administration, Readjustment 
        Benefits.
            ``(3) Veterans Benefits Administration, Veterans Insurance 
        and Indemnities.
            ``(4) Veterans Benefits Administration, Veterans Housing 
        Benefit Program Fund.
            ``(5) Veterans Benefits Administration, Vocational 
        Rehabilitation Loans Program Account.
            ``(6) Veterans Benefits Administration, Native American 
        Veteran Housing Loan Program Account.''; and
                    (G) in the subsection heading, by striking 
                ``Medical Care Accounts'' and inserting ``Covered 
                Accounts''; and
            (3) in the section heading, by striking ``certain medical 
        care accounts'' and inserting ``certain accounts''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to fiscal year 2016 and each subsequent fiscal year.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1105 of title 31, United States 
Code, is amended by striking the first paragraph (37) and inserting the 
following:
            ``(37) information on estimates of appropriations for the 
        fiscal year following the fiscal year for which the budget is 
        submitted for the following accounts of the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs:
                    ``(A) Veterans Benefits Administration, 
                Compensation and Pensions.
                    ``(B) Veterans Benefits Administration, 
                Readjustment Benefits.
                    ``(C) Veterans Benefits Administration, Veterans 
                Insurance and Indemnities.
                    ``(D) Veterans Benefits Administration, Veterans 
                Housing Benefit Program Fund.
                    ``(E) Veterans Benefits Administration, Vocational 
                Rehabilitation Loans Program Account.
                    ``(F) Veterans Benefits Administration, Native 
                American Veteran Housing Loan Program Account.
                    ``(G) Veterans Health Administration, Medical 
                Services.
                    ``(H) Veterans Health Administration, Medical 
                Support and Compliance.
                    ``(I) Veterans Health Administration, Medical 
                Facilities.''.
    (d) Technical Correction.--Such section is further amended by 
redesignating the second paragraph (37), as added by section 11(a)(2) 
of the GPRA Modernization Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-352; 124 Stat. 
3881), as paragraph (39).

SEC. 505. PUBLIC ACCESS TO DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS RESEARCH AND 
              DATA SHARING BETWEEN DEPARTMENTS.

    (a) Establishment of Internet Website.--The Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall make available on an Internet website of the Department 
of Veterans Affairs available to the public the following:
            (1) Data files that contain information on research of the 
        Department.
            (2) A data dictionary on each data file.
            (3) Instructions for how to obtain access to each data file 
        for use in research.
    (b) Public Access to Manuscripts on Department Funded Research.--
            (1) In general.--Beginning not later than 540 days after 
        the effective date specified in subsection (e), the Secretary 
        shall require, as a condition on the use of any data gathered 
        or formulated from research funded by the Department, that any 
        final, peer-reviewed manuscript prepared for publication that 
        uses such data be submitted to the Secretary for deposit in the 
        digital archive under paragraph (2) and publication under 
        paragraph (3).
            (2) Digital archive.--Not later than 540 days after the 
        effective date specified in subsection (e), the Secretary 
        shall--
                    (A) establish a digital archive consisting of 
                manuscripts described in paragraph (1); or
                    (B) partner with another executive agency to 
                compile such manuscripts in a digital archive.
            (3) Public availability.--
                    (A) Availability of archive.--The Secretary shall 
                ensure that the digital archive under paragraph (2) and 
                the contents of such archive are available to the 
                public via a publicly accessible Internet website at no 
                cost to the public.
                    (B) Availability of manuscripts.--The Secretary 
                shall ensure that each manuscript submitted to the 
                Secretary under paragraph (1) is available to the 
                public under subparagraph (A) not later than one year 
                after the official date on which the manuscript is 
                otherwise published.
            (4) Consistent with copyright law.--The Secretary shall 
        carry out this subsection in a manner consistent with 
        applicable copyright law.
            (5) Annual report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
                date the Secretary begins making manuscripts available 
                to the public under this subsection and not less 
                frequently than once each year thereafter, the 
                Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' 
                Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' 
                Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
                implementation of this subsection during the most 
                recent one-year period.
                    (B) Contents.--Each report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include for the period of the 
                report:
                            (i) The number of manuscripts submitted 
                        under paragraph (1).
                            (ii) The titles of such manuscripts.
                            (iii) The authors of such manuscripts.
                            (iv) For each such manuscript, the name and 
                        issue number or volume number, as the case may 
                        be, of the journal or other publication in 
                        which such manuscript was published.
    (c) Recommendations for Data Sharing Between Department of Veterans 
Affairs and Department of Defense.--Not later than one year after the 
effective date specified in subsection (e), the Department of Veterans 
Affairs-Department of Defense Joint Executive Committee established by 
section 320(a) of title 38, United States Code, shall submit to the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Defense options and 
recommendations for the establishment of a program for long-term 
cooperation and data sharing between and within the Department of 
Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense to facilitate research 
on outcomes of military service, readjustment after combat deployment, 
and other topics of importance to the following:
            (1) Veterans.
            (2) Members of the Armed Forces.
            (3) Family members of veterans.
            (4) Family members of members of the Armed Forces.
            (5) Members of communities that have a significant 
        population of veterans or members of the Armed Forces.
    (d) Executive Agency Defined.--In this section, the term 
``executive agency'' has the meaning given that term in section 133 of 
title 41, United States Code.
    (e) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 506. ASSESSMENT BY COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES OF 
              INFORMATION MADE AVAILABLE BY VETERANS BENEFITS 
              ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Assessment of Information Currently Available.--Not later than 
two years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall--
            (1) conduct an assessment of the process by which the 
        Veterans Benefits Administration informs veterans, veterans 
        service organizations, and such other persons as the 
        Comptroller General considers appropriate regarding the 
        furnishing of benefits under laws administered by the Secretary 
        of Veterans Affairs to determine the extent to which the 
        process results in disseminated information that--
                    (A) adequately supports and improves the timeliness 
                and accuracy of decisions made by the Administration 
                with respect to claims for disability compensation and 
                such other benefits furnished under laws administered 
                by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs as the Comptroller 
                General considers appropriate; and
                    (B) encourages the filing of fully developed claims 
                for benefits under laws administered by the Secretary; 
                and
            (2) assess how the Veterans Benefits Administration 
        notifies each claimant during, and as part of, any electronic 
        filing process established by the Secretary for the filing of 
        applications for disability compensation and such other 
        benefits under laws administered by the Secretary as the 
        Comptroller General considers appropriate that services may be 
        available to the claimant from a veterans service organization.
    (b) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
findings of the Comptroller General under subsection (a). Such report 
shall include such recommendations as the Comptroller General may have 
for legislative or administrative action to improve the availability of 
information made available to the public by the Veterans Benefits 
Administration regarding the furnishing of benefits under laws 
administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    (c) Veterans Service Organization Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``veterans service organization'' means an organization recognized 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the representation of veterans 
under section 5902 of title 38, United States Code.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 507. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON ADVISORY COMMITTEES OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the effective date 
specified in subsection (c), the Comptroller General shall submit to 
the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
advisory committees of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a)--
            (1) shall include--
                    (A) recommendations or proposals for continuing, 
                modifying, or terminating certain advisory committees, 
                including noting areas of overlap and duplication among 
                the advisory committees; and
                    (B) such other information as the Comptroller 
                General considers appropriate; and
            (2) may include--
                    (A) a description of each advisory committee, 
                including with respect to each committee--
                            (i) the purpose of the committee;
                            (ii) the commencement date of the 
                        committee; and
                            (iii) the anticipated termination date of 
                        the committee;
                    (B) a summary of the anticipated expenses and the 
                actual expenses incurred for each advisory committee 
                during the most recent three fiscal years ending before 
                the date of the enactment of this Act; and
                    (C) with respect to meetings held by each advisory 
                committee--
                            (i) the frequency with which each committee 
                        has met during the shorter of--
                                    (I) the most recent three fiscal 
                                years ending before the date of the 
                                enactment of this Act; and
                                    (II) the life of the committee;
                            (ii) the date of the most recent meeting 
                        held by the committee before such date of 
                        enactment; and
                            (iii) the date of the most recent report or 
                        other written product developed by the 
                        committee before such date of enactment.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

     TITLE VI--IMPROVEMENT OF PROCESSING OF CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION

           Subtitle A--Claims Based on Military Sexual Trauma

SEC. 601. MEDICAL EXAMINATION AND OPINION FOR DISABILITY COMPENSATION 
              CLAIMS BASED ON MILITARY SEXUAL TRAUMA.

    (a) In General.--Section 5103A(d) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new paragraph:
    ``(3)(A) In the case of a claim for disability compensation based 
on a mental health condition related to military sexual trauma, the 
Secretary shall treat an examination or opinion as being necessary to 
make a decision on a claim for purposes of paragraph (1) if the 
evidence of record before the Secretary, taking into consideration all 
information and lay or medical evidence (including statements of the 
claimant)--
            ``(i)(I) contains competent evidence that the claimant has 
        a current disability, or persistent or recurrent symptoms of 
        disability; and
            ``(II) indicates that the disability or symptoms may be 
        associated with the claimant's active military, naval, or air 
        service; but
            ``(ii) does not contain a diagnosis or opinion by a mental 
        health professional that may assist in corroborating the 
        occurrence of a military sexual trauma stressor related to a 
        diagnosable mental health condition.
    ``(B) In this paragraph, the term `military sexual trauma' shall 
have the meaning specified by the Secretary for purposes of this 
paragraph, and shall include `sexual harassment' (as so specified).''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
number of examinations and opinions conducted by the Secretary pursuant 
to paragraph (3) of section 5103A(d) of title 38, United States Code 
(as added by subsection (a)), including the following:
            (1) The number of examinations conducted using a 
        standardized disability assessment.
            (2) The number of examinations conducted using a non-
        standardized clinical interview.

SEC. 602. CASE REPRESENTATIVE OFFICERS FOR MILITARY SEXUAL TRAUMA 
              SUPPORT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall assign to 
each individual seeking compensation under the laws administered by the 
Secretary based on military sexual trauma a case representative officer 
who shall provide advice and general information to such individual on 
the claims process for such compensation. Each case representative 
officer so assigned shall be assigned from among current personnel of 
the Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (b) Liaison.--A case representative officer assigned to an 
individual under subsection (a) shall be responsible for serving as a 
liaison between the individual, an authorized agent or attorney of the 
individual under section 5904 of title 38, United States Code, or an 
otherwise accredited representative of the individual, and the 
Department of Veterans Affairs on matters relating to the claim of the 
individual for compensation under the laws administered by the 
Secretary.
    (c) Case Representative Officer Requirements.--
            (1) Competence and knowledge.--Each case representative 
        officer assigned under subsection (a) shall be competent and 
        knowledgeable about the following:
                    (A) The claims adjudication process and applicable 
                laws, regulations, and other authority applicable to 
                the adjudication of disability claims based on military 
                sexual trauma.
                    (B) Such other services to victims of sexual trauma 
                as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Limitation on number of individuals to which 
        assigned.--A case representative officer may not be assigned to 
        more individuals described in subsection (a) than, as 
        determined by the Secretary, is appropriate for the provision 
        of individual case management assistance by such officer.
    (d) Information on Benefits and Programs Relating to Military 
Sexual Trauma.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall make available to the 
        public information on the availability of case representative 
        officers under subsection (a) to assist in the application for 
        benefits based on military sexual trauma. The Secretary shall 
        revise and update the information so made available in order to 
        ensure that the information is as current as possible.
            (2) Individuals separating from military service.--The 
        Secretary shall, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, 
        ensure that individuals who are being separated from the active 
        military, naval, or air service are provided appropriate 
        information about programs, requirements, and procedures for 
        applying for benefits based on military sexual trauma and the 
        availability of case representative officers under subsection 
        (a).
    (e) Information on Training for Agents and Representatives of 
Individuals Assigned Case Representative Officer.--The Secretary shall 
make available to the authorized agent or attorney of an individual 
assigned a case representative under subsection (a), or to the 
otherwise accredited representative of the individual, any relevant 
materials used to train such case representative officer for the duties 
of such position.
    (f) Advisory Committee on Women Veterans Consideration of 
Mechanisms To Enhance Coordination Between VBA and VHA on Benefits for 
Military Sexual Trauma.--The Advisory Committee on Women Veterans 
established under section 542 of title 38, United States Code, shall 
undertake actions to identify mechanisms to enhance coordination 
between the Veterans Benefits Administration and the Veterans Health 
Administration in the provision of benefits based on military sexual 
trauma, including the identification of barriers to the appropriate 
provision of benefits for military sexual trauma by such 
Administrations and of means of eliminating or reducing such barriers.
    (g) Annual Reports.--Not less frequently than annually, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report setting forth the following:
            (1) A certification whether or not the case representative 
        officers assigned under subsection (a) during the preceding 
        year met the requirements specified in subsection (c).
            (2) A description of the current training the Secretary 
        provides to employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration 
        on claims for benefits based on military sexual trauma, 
        including the frequency, length, and content of such training.
            (3) A description of current policies and procedures on the 
        training the Secretary provides to case representative 
        officers, including the current position descriptions for case 
        representative officers.
            (4) A description of current efforts to coordinate 
        activities and assistance provided to individuals who seek care 
        or benefits for military sexual trauma between the Veterans 
        Health Administration and Veterans Benefits Administration, 
        including the efforts of the Advisory Committee on Women 
        Veterans under subsection (f).
    (h) Sunset.--
            (1) In general.--No case representative officer may be 
        assigned under subsection (a) after December 31, 2018.
            (2) Continuation of duties after sunset date.--Paragraph 
        (1) shall not be construed to prohibit any case representative 
        officer assigned to an individual before the date specified in 
        that paragraph from performing duties pursuant to this section 
        after that date with respect to a claim for which that case 
        representative officer was assigned to such individual before 
        that date.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Active military, naval, or air service.--The term 
        ``active military, naval, or air service'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
            (2) Military sexual trauma.--The term ``military sexual 
        trauma'' shall have the meaning specified by the Secretary for 
        purposes of this section, and shall include ``sexual 
        harassment'' (as so specified).

SEC. 603. REPORT ON STANDARD OF PROOF FOR SERVICE-CONNECTION OF MENTAL 
              HEALTH CONDITIONS RELATED TO MILITARY SEXUAL TRAUMA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
current standard of proof for service-connection under chapter 11 of 
title 38, United States Code, for covered mental health conditions 
based on military sexual trauma.
    (b) Recommendations.--The Secretary shall include in the report 
under subsection (a) any recommendations the Secretary considers 
appropriate to improve the adjudication of claims for compensation 
based on military sexual trauma, including--
            (1) recommendations for an appropriate standard of proof 
        for such claims if the Secretary considers such recommendations 
        advisable; and
            (2) recommendations for legislative action, if necessary, 
        to carry out such improvement.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Active military, naval, or air service.--The term 
        ``active military, naval, or air service'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
            (2) Covered mental health condition.--The term ``covered 
        mental health condition'' means post-traumatic stress disorder, 
        anxiety, depression, or other mental health diagnosis that the 
        Secretary determines to be related to military sexual trauma.
            (3) Military sexual trauma.--The term ``military sexual 
        trauma'' shall have the meaning specified by the Secretary for 
        purposes of this section, and shall include ``sexual 
        harassment'' (as so specified).

SEC. 604. REPORTS ON CLAIMS FOR DISABILITIES INCURRED OR AGGRAVATED BY 
              MILITARY SEXUAL TRAUMA.

    (a) Reports.--Not later than December 1, 2014, and each year 
thereafter through 2018, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to Congress a report on the covered claims submitted to the Secretary 
during the previous fiscal year.
    (b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
            (1) The number of covered claims submitted to or considered 
        by the Secretary during the fiscal year covered by the report.
            (2) Of the covered claims under paragraph (1), the number 
        and percentage of such claims--
                    (A) submitted by each gender;
                    (B) that were approved, including the number and 
                percentage of such approved claims submitted by each 
                gender; and
                    (C) that were denied, including the number and 
                percentage of such denied claims submitted by each 
                gender.
            (3) Of the covered claims under paragraph (1) that were 
        approved, the number and percentage, listed by each gender, of 
        claims assigned to each rating percentage of disability.
            (4) Of the covered claims under paragraph (1) that were 
        denied--
                    (A) the three most common reasons given by the 
                Secretary under section 5104(b)(1) of title 38, United 
                States Code, for such denials; and
                    (B) the number of denials that were based on the 
                failure of a veteran to report for a medical 
                examination.
            (5) Of the covered claims under paragraph (1) that were 
        resubmitted to the Secretary after denial in a previous 
        adjudication--
                    (A) the number of such claims submitted to or 
                considered by the Secretary during the fiscal year 
                covered by the report;
                    (B) the number and percentage of such claims--
                            (i) submitted by each gender;
                            (ii) that were approved, including the 
                        number and percentage of such approved claims 
                        submitted by each gender; and
                            (iii) that were denied, including the 
                        number and percentage of such denied claims 
                        submitted by each gender;
                    (C) the number and percentage, listed by each 
                gender, of claims assigned to each rating percentage of 
                disability; and
                    (D) of such claims that were again denied--
                            (i) the three most common reasons given by 
                        the Secretary under section 5104(b)(1) of such 
                        title for such denials; and
                            (ii) the number of denials that were based 
                        on the failure of a veteran to report for a 
                        medical examination.
            (6) The number of covered claims that, as of the end of the 
        fiscal year covered by the report, are pending and, separately, 
        the number of such claims on appeal.
            (7) For the fiscal year covered by the report, the average 
        number of days that covered claims take to complete beginning 
        on the date on which the claim is submitted.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Active military, naval, or air service.--The term 
        ``active military, naval, or air service'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
            (2) Covered claims.--The term ``covered claims'' means 
        claims for disability compensation submitted to the Secretary 
        based on post traumatic stress disorder alleged to have been 
        incurred or aggravated by military sexual trauma.
            (3) Military sexual trauma.--The term ``military sexual 
        trauma'' shall have the meaning specified by the Secretary for 
        purposes of this section, and shall include ``sexual 
        harassment'' (as so specified).

      Subtitle B--Claims for Dependency and Indemnity Compensation

SEC. 611. PROGRAM ON TREATMENT OF CERTAIN APPLICATIONS FOR DEPENDENCY 
              AND INDEMNITY COMPENSATION AS FULLY DEVELOPED CLAIMS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out 
a program to assess the feasibility and advisability of expediting the 
treatment of a covered dependency and indemnity compensation claim.
    (b) Covered Dependency and Indemnity Compensation Claims.--For 
purposes of this section, a covered dependency and indemnity 
compensation claim is a claim submitted to the Secretary for 
compensation under chapter 13 of title 38, United States Code, for 
which the claimant--
            (1) applies for such compensation within one-year of the 
        death of the veteran upon whose service the claim is based;
            (2) was the dependent on the claim of a veteran who was 
        receiving benefits for one or more service-connected conditions 
        as of the date of death;
            (3) submits a death certificate or other evidence with the 
        claim indicating that the veteran's death was due to a service-
        connected or compensable disability; and
            (4) in the case that the claimant is the spouse of the 
        deceased veteran, certifies that he or she has not remarried 
        since the date of the veteran's death.
    (c) Duration.--The program shall be carried out during the one-year 
period beginning on the date that is 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (d) Locations.--The program shall be carried out at the Pension 
Management Center of the Department of Veterans Affairs or such centers 
selected by the Secretary for purposes of the program.
    (e) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date on 
        which the program is completed, the Secretary shall submit to 
        the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        a report on the program.
            (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The number of covered dependency and indemnity 
                compensation claims that were adjudicated under the 
                program, disaggregated by the following:
                            (i) Claims in which the claimant claimed 
                        entitlement to compensation on the basis of the 
                        claimant's status as the spouse of a deceased 
                        veteran.
                            (ii) Claims in which the claimant claimed 
                        entitlement to compensation on the basis of the 
                        claimant's status as the child of a deceased 
                        veteran.
                            (iii) Claims in which the claimant claimed 
                        entitlement to compensation on the basis of the 
                        claimant's status as the parent of a deceased 
                        veteran.
                    (B) The number of covered dependency and indemnity 
                compensation claims that were adjudicated under the 
                program and for which compensation was not awarded, 
                disaggregated by clauses (i) through (iii) of 
                subparagraph (A).
                    (C) A comparison of the accuracy and timeliness of 
                claims adjudicated under the program with claims 
                submitted to the Secretary for compensation under 
                chapter 13 of title 38, United States Code, that were 
                not provided expeditious treatment under the program.
                    (D) The findings of the Secretary with respect to 
                the program.
                    (E) Such recommendations as the Secretary may have 
                for legislative or administrative action to improve the 
                adjudication of claims submitted to the Secretary for 
                compensation under chapter 13 of title 38, United 
                States Code.

SEC. 612. REPORT BY SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS ON IMPROVING 
              TIMELINESS AND ACCURACY OF ADMINISTRATION OF CLAIMS FOR 
              DEPENDENCY AND INDEMNITY COMPENSATION AND PENSION FOR 
              SURVIVING SPOUSES AND CHILDREN.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 455 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report with 
recommendations for legislative or administrative actions to improve 
the timeliness and accuracy with which the Secretary processes and 
adjudicates claims for compensation under chapter 13 of title 38, 
United States Code, and pension under sections 1541 and 1542 of such 
title.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

              Subtitle C--Agency of Original Jurisdiction

SEC. 621. WORKING GROUP TO IMPROVE EMPLOYEE WORK CREDIT AND WORK 
              MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS OF VETERANS BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION IN 
              AN ELECTRONIC ENVIRONMENT.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
establish a working group to assess and develop recommendations for the 
improvement of the employee work credit and work management systems of 
the Veterans Benefits Administration in an electronic environment.
    (b) Composition.--The working group shall be composed of the 
following:
            (1) The Secretary or the Secretary's designee.
            (2) Individuals selected by the Secretary from among 
        employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs who handle 
        claims for compensation and pension benefits and are 
        recommended to the Secretary by a labor organization for 
        purposes of this section, including at least one of each of the 
        following individuals:
                    (A) A veterans service representative.
                    (B) A rating veterans service representative.
                    (C) A decision review officer.
            (3) Not fewer than three individuals selected by the 
        Secretary to represent different organizations recognized by 
        the Secretary for the representation of veterans under section 
        5902 of title 38, United States Code.
            (4) Individuals selected by the Secretary--
                    (A) that are not employees of the Department; and
                    (B) that are experts in work credit and work 
                management systems.
    (c) Duties.--The duties of the working group are to assess and 
develop recommendations for the following:
            (1) The improvement of the employee work credit and work 
        management systems of the Veterans Benefits Administration in 
        an electronic environment.
            (2) A scientific, data based methodology to be used in 
        revising the employee work credit system of the Department to 
        improve the quality and quantity of work produced by employees 
        of the Department.
            (3) The improvement of the resource allocation model of the 
        Veterans Benefits Administration, with a focus on the 
        processing of claims in an electronic environment.
            (4) A schedule by which the revisions referred to in 
        paragraph (2) will be implemented by the Department.
    (d) Review and Incorporation of Findings From Prior Study.--In 
carrying out its duties under subsection (c), the working group shall 
review the findings and conclusions of previous studies of the employee 
work credit and work management systems of the Veterans Benefits 
Administration.
    (e) Role of the Secretary.--The Secretary shall consider the 
recommendations of the working group and implement such recommendations 
as the Secretary determines appropriate.
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) Interim report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the establishment of the working group, the working group 
        shall submit to Congress a report on the progress of the 
        working group.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than one year after the date 
        of the establishment of the working group, the Secretary shall 
        submit to Congress the methodology described in subsection 
        (c)(2) and the schedule described in subsection (c)(4) that the 
        Secretary has decided to implement pursuant to subsection (e).
    (g) Implementation of Methodology and Schedule.--After submitting 
the report under subsection (f), the Secretary shall take such actions 
as may be necessary to apply the methodology described in subsection 
(c)(2) and the schedule described in subsection (c)(4) that the 
Secretary has decided to implement pursuant to subsection (e).

SEC. 622. TASK FORCE ON RETENTION AND TRAINING OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS CLAIMS PROCESSORS AND ADJUDICATORS.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
establish a task force to assess retention and training of claims 
processors and adjudicators that are employed by the Department of 
Veterans Affairs and other departments and agencies of the Federal 
Government.
    (b) Composition.--The task force shall be composed of the 
following:
            (1) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs or designee.
            (2) The Director of the Office of Personnel Management or 
        designee.
            (3) The Commissioner of Social Security or designee.
            (4) An individual selected by the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs who represents an organization recognized by the 
        Secretary for the representation of veterans under section 5902 
        of title 38, United States Code.
            (5) Such other individuals selected by the Secretary who 
        represent such other organizations and institutions as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Duration.--The task force established under subsection (a) 
shall terminate not later than two years after the date on which the 
task force is established under such subsection.
    (d) Duties.--The duties of the task force are as follows:
            (1) To identify key skills required by claims processors 
        and adjudicators to perform the duties of claims processors and 
        adjudicators in the various claims processing and adjudication 
        positions throughout the Federal Government.
            (2) To identify reasons for employee attrition from claims 
        processing positions.
            (3) To coordinate with educational institutions to develop 
        training and programs of education for members of the Armed 
        Forces to prepare such members for employment in claims 
        processing and adjudication positions in the Federal 
        Government.
            (4) To identify and coordinate offices of the Department of 
        Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs located 
        throughout the United States to provide information about, and 
        promotion of, available claims processing positions to members 
        of the Armed Forces transitioning to civilian life and to 
        veterans with disabilities.
            (5) To establish performance measures to evaluate the 
        effectiveness of the task force.
            (6) Not later than one year after the date of the 
        establishment of the task force, to develop a Government-wide 
        strategic and operational plan for promoting employment of 
        veterans in claims processing positions in the Federal 
        Government.
            (7) To establish performance measures to assess the plan 
        developed under paragraph (6), to assess the implementation of 
        such plan, and to revise such plan as the task force considers 
        appropriate.
    (e) Reports.--
            (1) Submittal of plan.--Not later than one year after the 
        date of the establishment of the task force, the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs shall submit to Congress a report on the plan 
        developed by the task force under subsection (d)(6).
            (2) Assessment of implementation.--Not later than 120 days 
        after the termination of the task force, the Secretary shall 
        submit to Congress a report that assesses the implementation of 
        the plan developed by the task force under subsection (d)(6).

SEC. 623. REPORTS ON REQUESTS BY THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS FOR 
              RECORDS OF OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) Reports Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter through the 
date that is 910 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report on the attempts of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs to obtain records necessary to 
adjudicate claims for benefits from another department or agency of the 
Federal Government during the 180-day period ending on the date of such 
report.
    (b) Elements.--
            (1) In general.--Each report shall set forth the following:
                    (A) For the period covered by such report, the 
                following:
                            (i) The total number of requests made by 
                        the Department.
                            (ii) The types of records requested.
                            (iii) The number of requests made before 
                        the receipt of each record.
                            (iv) The amount of time between the initial 
                        request for each record and the receipt of each 
                        record.
                            (v) The number of occurrences of the 
                        receipt of a record after the adjudication of 
                        the claim for which the record was sought.
                            (vi) A description of the efforts of the 
                        Secretary to expedite the delivery of records 
                        to the Department from other departments and 
                        agencies of the Federal Government.
                    (B) Such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate in light of such report.
            (2) Presentation.--The information in a report under clause 
        (i) through (v) of paragraph (1)(A) shall be set forth 
        separately for each department and agency of the Federal 
        Government covered by such report.

SEC. 624. RECOGNITION OF REPRESENTATIVES OF INDIAN TRIBES IN THE 
              PREPARATION, PRESENTATION, AND PROSECUTION OF CLAIMS 
              UNDER LAWS ADMINISTERED BY THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS.

    Section 5902(a)(1) is amended by inserting ``, including Indian 
tribes (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and 
Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b))'' after ``as the Secretary 
may approve''.

SEC. 625. PROGRAM ON PARTICIPATION OF LOCAL AND TRIBAL GOVERNMENTS IN 
              IMPROVING QUALITY OF CLAIMS FOR DISABILITY COMPENSATION 
              SUBMITTED TO DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Program Required.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
carry out a program to assess the feasibility and advisability of 
entering into memoranda of understanding with local governments and 
tribal organizations--
            (1) to improve the quality of claims submitted to the 
        Secretary for compensation under chapter 11 of title 38, United 
        States Code, and pension under chapter 15 of such title; and
            (2) to provide assistance to veterans who may be eligible 
        for such compensation or pension in submitting such claims.
    (b) Minimum Number of Participating Tribal Organizations.--In 
carrying out the program required by subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall enter into, or maintain existing, memoranda of understanding with 
at least--
            (1) two tribal organizations; and
            (2) 10 State or local governments.
    (c) Duration.--The program shall be carried out during the two-year 
period beginning on the date of the commencement of the program.
    (d) Report.--
            (1) Initial report.--Not later than one year after the date 
        of the commencement of the program, the Secretary shall submit 
        to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        a report that includes the following:
                    (A) A description of the implementation and 
                operation of the program, including a description of 
                outreach conducted by the Secretary to tribal 
                organizations and State and local governments.
                    (B) An evaluation of the program, including the 
                total number of memoranda of understanding entered into 
                or maintained by the Secretary.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        termination of the program, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
        on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report 
        that includes the following:
                    (A) A description of the implementation and 
                operation of the program, including a description of 
                outreach conducted by the Secretary to tribal 
                organizations and State and local governments.
                    (B) An evaluation of the program, including the 
                total number of memoranda of understanding entered into 
                or maintained by the Secretary.
                    (C) The findings and conclusions of the Secretary 
                with respect to the program.
                    (D) Such recommendations for continuation or 
                expansion of the program as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
    (e) Tribal Organization Defined.--In this section, the term 
``tribal organization'' has the meaning given that term in section 3765 
of title 38, United States Code.

SEC. 626. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS NOTICE OF AVERAGE TIMES FOR 
              PROCESSING COMPENSATION CLAIMS.

    (a) Public Notice.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, to the 
extent practicable, post the information described in subsection (b)--
            (1) in physical locations, such as Regional Offices or 
        other claims in-take facilities, that the Secretary considers 
        appropriate;
            (2) on the Internet website of the Department; and
            (3) through other mediums or using such other methods, 
        including collaboration with veterans service organizations, as 
        the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (b) Information Described.--
            (1) In general.--The information described in this 
        subsection is the average processing time of the claims 
        described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Claims described.--The claims described in this 
        paragraph are each of the following types of claims for 
        benefits under the laws administered by the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs:
                    (A) A fully developed claim.
                    (B) A claim that is not fully developed.
            (3) Update of information.--The information described in 
        this subsection shall be updated not less frequently than once 
        each fiscal quarter.
    (c) Expiration of Requirements.--The requirements of subsection (a) 
shall expire on December 31, 2015.
    (d) Veterans Service Organization Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``veterans service organization'' means an organization recognized 
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the representation of veterans 
under section 5902 of title 38, United States Code.

SEC. 627. QUARTERLY REPORTS ON PROGRESS OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS IN ELIMINATING BACKLOG OF CLAIMS FOR COMPENSATION 
              THAT HAVE NOT BEEN ADJUDICATED.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and not less frequently than quarterly thereafter 
through calendar year 2015, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report 
on the backlog of claims filed with the Department of Veterans Affairs 
for compensation that have not been adjudicated by the Department.
    (b) Contents.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) For each month through calendar year 2015, a projection 
        of the following:
                    (A) The number of claims completed.
                    (B) The number of claims received.
                    (C) The number of claims on backlog at the end of 
                the month.
                    (D) The number of claims pending at the end of the 
                month.
                    (E) The number of appeals pending at the end of the 
                month.
                    (F) A description of the status of the 
                implementation of initiatives carried out by the 
                Secretary to address the backlog, including the 
                expected impact of those initiatives on accuracy and 
                timeliness of adjudication of claims.
            (2) For each quarter through calendar year 2015, a 
        projection of the average accuracy of disability determinations 
        for compensation claims that require a disability rating (or 
        disability decision).
            (3) For each month during the most recently completed 
        quarter, the following:
                    (A) The number of claims completed.
                    (B) The number of claims received.
                    (C) The number of claims on backlog at the end of 
                the month.
                    (D) The number of claims pending at the end of the 
                month.
                    (E) The number of appeals pending at the end of the 
                month.
                    (F) A description of the status of the 
                implementation of initiatives carried out by the 
                Secretary to address the backlog, including the impact 
                of those initiatives on accuracy and timeliness of 
                adjudication of claims.
                    (G) An assessment of the accuracy of disability 
                determinations for compensation claims that require a 
                disability rating (or disability decision).
            (4) For the most recently completed quarter--
                    (A) the number of cases physically received at the 
                Board of Veterans' Appeals and docketed;
                    (B) the number of cases pending at the Board of 
                Veterans' Appeals at the end of the quarter;
                    (C) the number of cases physically at the Board of 
                Veterans' Appeals at the end of the quarter;
                    (D) the number of notices of disagreement and 
                appeals filed to the agency of original jurisdiction 
                referred to in section 7105(b)(1) of title 38, United 
                States Code; and
                    (E) the number of decisions made by the Board of 
                Veterans' Appeals and the percentage of such decisions 
                that were allowed, remanded, denied, or otherwise 
                disposed of.
    (c) Availability to Public.--The Secretary shall make each report 
submitted under subsection (a) available to the public.
    (d) On Backlog and Pending Defined.--In this section, the terms 
``on backlog'' and ``pending'', with respect to a claim for 
compensation received by the Secretary, shall have the meaning 
specified by the Secretary for purposes of this section.

SEC. 628. REPORTS ON USE OF EXISTING AUTHORITIES TO EXPEDITE BENEFITS 
              DECISIONS.

    (a) Report on Current Use of Temporary, Intermediate, and 
Provisional Rating Decisions.--
            (1) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
        the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House 
        of Representatives a report on the use of temporary, 
        intermediate, and provisional rating decisions to expedite the 
        benefits decisions of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
            (2) Report elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) With respect to temporary and intermediate 
                rating decisions, the following:
                            (i) The number of temporary and 
                        intermediate rating decisions issued by the 
                        Department during each of fiscal years 2011, 
                        2012, and 2013.
                            (ii) A description of any reasons or 
                        obstacles that prevent use of existing 
                        authorities to issue temporary or intermediate 
                        rating decisions.
                            (iii) A description of the Quick Pay 
                        Disability initiative, including the rationale 
                        for not expanding the initiative beyond pilot 
                        program status.
                    (B) With respect to provisional rating decisions, 
                the following:
                            (i) The number of provisional rating 
                        decisions issued by the Department during the 
                        oldest claims first initiative.
                            (ii) Of the provisional rating decisions 
                        issued during the oldest claims first 
                        initiative--
                                    (I) the number of such decisions 
                                that involved a claim granted;
                                    (II) the number of such decisions 
                                that involved a claim denied; and
                                    (III) the number of such decisions 
                                that involved a claim granted in part 
                                or a claim denied in part.
                            (iii) A statement of the most common 
                        reasons claims were not granted earlier under 
                        the oldest claims first initiative when there 
                        was sufficient evidence to render an award of 
                        benefits in the provisional rating decision.
                            (iv) The average number of days to issue a 
                        provisional rating decision under the oldest 
                        claims first initiative.
                            (v) Of the total number of decisions that 
                        were completed under the oldest claims first 
                        initiative--
                                    (I) the number that were Category 1 
                                claims and received a final rating 
                                decision; and
                                    (II) the number that were Category 
                                2 claims and received a provisional 
                                rating decision.
                            (vi) The number of rating decisions issued 
                        during the oldest claims first imitative that 
                        involved a brokered claim, set forth by number 
                        of such claims by Regional Office of the 
                        Department, including--
                                    (I) the number of brokered claims 
                                received by each Regional Office; and
                                    (II) the number of brokered claims 
                                issued by each Regional Office.
                            (vii) The number of provisional rating 
                        decisions issued during the oldest claims first 
                        initiative with respect to which the veteran 
                        requested that the provisional decision become 
                        final in order to appeal.
                            (viii) The number of provisional rating 
                        decisions issued during the oldest claims first 
                        initiative with respect to which the veteran 
                        requested an appeal after the expiration of the 
                        1-year period beginning on the date of 
                        notification of the provisional rating 
                        decision.
                            (ix) An assessment of the accuracy of 
                        provisional rating decisions issued during the 
                        oldest claims first initiative, set forth by 
                        Category 1 claims and Category 2 claims.
                    (C) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate for purposes of the report.
            (3) Supplemental information.--If the Secretary continues 
        to obtain information on rating decisions under clauses (vii) 
        and (viii) of paragraph (2)(B) after the date of the submittal 
        of the report required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
        submit to the committees of Congress referred to in paragraph 
        (1) a report on such information that supplements the 
        information on such clauses in the report under paragraph (1) 
        when the Secretary completes accumulation of such information.
    (b) Plan for Increase in Use of Temporary or Intermediate Rating 
Decisions.--
            (1) Report on plan required.--Not later than 180 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
        submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives a report setting forth a plan to increase the 
        use of temporary or intermediate rating decisions to expedite 
        benefit decisions of the Department when the record contains 
        sufficient evidence to grant any claim at issue, including 
        service connection.
            (2) Plan elements.--The plan required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) Mechanisms to overcome obstacles to the use of 
                temporary or intermediate rating decisions, including 
                mechanisms (such as upgrades) to assure the ability of 
                the Veterans Benefits Management System to facilitate 
                the issuance of temporary or intermediate rating 
                decisions.
                    (B) Mechanisms to ensure that appropriate claimant 
                populations, such as claimants who file complex or 
                multi-issue disability compensation claims, benefit 
                from the availability of temporary or intermediate 
                rating decisions.
                    (C) Mechanisms to provide for the use of temporary 
                or intermediate rating decisions, including mechanisms 
                to resolve whether a request by a claimant or claimant 
                representative should trigger use of a temporary or 
                intermediate rating decision depending on the 
                circumstances of the claimant.
                    (D) Mechanisms to prevent the use of temporary or 
                intermediate rating decisions in lieu of a final rating 
                decision when a final rating decision could be made 
                with little or no additional claim development.
                    (E) Such recommendations for legislative or 
                administrative action as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate to increase the use of temporary or 
                intermediate rating decisions to expedite benefit 
                decisions of the Department.

SEC. 629. REPORTS ON DEPARTMENT DISABILITY MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS AND 
              PREVENTION OF UNNECESSARY MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS.

    (a) Report on Disability Medical Examinations Furnished by 
Department of Veterans Affairs.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the furnishing of general medical 
        and specialty medical examinations by the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs for purposes of adjudicating claims for 
        benefits under laws administered by the Secretary.
            (2) Contents.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) The number of general medical examinations 
                furnished by the Department during the period of fiscal 
                years 2009 through 2012 for purposes of adjudicating 
                claims for benefits under laws administered by the 
                Secretary.
                    (B) The number of general medical examinations 
                furnished by the Department during the period of fiscal 
                years 2009 through 2012 for purposes of adjudicating a 
                claim in which a comprehensive joint examination was 
                conducted, but for which no disability relating to a 
                joint, bone, or muscle had been asserted as an issue in 
                the claim.
                    (C) The number of specialty medical examinations 
                furnished by the Department during the period of fiscal 
                years 2009 through 2012 for purposes of adjudicating a 
                claim.
                    (D) The number of specialty medical examinations 
                furnished by the Department during the period of fiscal 
                years 2009 through 2012 for purposes of adjudicating a 
                claim in which one or more joint examinations were 
                conducted.
                    (E) A summary with citations to any medical and 
                scientific studies that provide a basis for determining 
                that three repetitions is adequate to determine the 
                effect of repetitive use on functional impairments.
                    (F) The names of all examination reports, including 
                general medical examinations and Disability Benefits 
                Questionnaires, used for evaluation of compensation and 
                pension disability claims which require measurement of 
                repeated ranges of motion testing and the number of 
                examinations requiring such measurements which were 
                conducted in fiscal year 2012.
                    (G) The average amount of time taken by an 
                individual conducting a medical examination to perform 
                the three repetitions of movement of each joint.
                    (H) A discussion of whether there are more 
                efficient and effective scientifically reliable methods 
                of testing for functional loss on repetitive use of an 
                extremity other than the three time repetition 
                currently used by the Department.
                    (I) Recommendations as to the continuation of the 
                practice of measuring functional impairment by using 
                three repetitions of movement of each joint during the 
                examination as a criteria for evaluating the effect of 
                repetitive motion on functional impairment with 
                supporting rationale.
    (b) Report and Plan to Prevent the Ordering of Unnecessary Medical 
Examinations.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
        on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report 
        on the efforts of the Secretary in reducing the necessity for 
        in-person disability examinations and other efforts to comply 
        with the provisions of section 5125 of title 38, United States 
        Code.
            (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) Criteria used by the Secretary to determine if 
                a claim is eligible for the Acceptable Clinical 
                Evidence initiative.
                    (B) The number of claims determined to be eligible 
                for the Acceptable Clinical Evidence initiative during 
                the period beginning on the date of the initiation of 
                the initiative and ending on the date of the enactment 
                of this Act, disaggregated--
                            (i) by fiscal year; and
                            (ii) by claims determined eligible based in 
                        whole or in part on medical evidence provided 
                        by a private health care provider.
                    (C) The total number of claims determined to be 
                eligible for the Acceptable Clinical Evidence 
                initiative that required an employee of the Department 
                to supplement the evidence with information obtained 
                during a telephone interview with a claimant or health 
                care provider.
                    (D) Information on any other initiatives or 
                efforts, including disability benefits questionnaires, 
                of the Department to further encourage the use of 
                medical evidence provided by a private health care 
                provider and reliance upon reports of a medical 
                examination administered by a private physician if the 
                report is sufficiently complete to be adequate for the 
                purposes of adjudicating a claim.
                    (E) A plan--
                            (i) to measure, track, and prevent the 
                        ordering of unnecessary medical examinations 
                        when the provision by a claimant of a medical 
                        examination administered by a private physician 
                        in support of a claim for benefits under 
                        chapter 11 or 15 of title 38, United States 
                        Code, is adequate for the purpose of making a 
                        decision on that claim; and
                            (ii) that includes the actions the 
                        Secretary will take to eliminate any request by 
                        the Department for a medical examination in the 
                        case of a claim for benefits under chapter 11 
                        or 15 of such title in support of which a 
                        claimant submits medical evidence or a medical 
                        opinion provided by a private health care 
                        provider that is competent, credible, 
                        probative, and otherwise adequate for purposes 
                        of making a decision on that claim.

    Subtitle D--Board of Veterans' Appeals and Court of Appeals for 
                            Veterans Claims

SEC. 631. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN MISFILED DOCUMENTS AS A NOTICE OF APPEAL 
              TO THE COURT OF APPEALS FOR VETERANS CLAIMS.

    Section 7266 is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e)(1) If a person adversely affected by a final decision of the 
Board, who has not filed a notice of appeal with the United States 
Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims under subsection (a), misfiles a 
document with the Board or the agency of original jurisdiction referred 
to in section 7105(b)(1) of this title that expresses disagreement with 
such decision and a clear intent to seek review of such decision by the 
United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims, not later than 120 
days after the date of such decision, such document shall be treated as 
timely filed under subsection (a).
    ``(2) The treatment of misfiled documents under paragraph (1) does 
not limit equitable relief that may be otherwise available to a person 
described in that paragraph.''.

SEC. 632. DETERMINATION OF MANNER OF APPEARANCE FOR HEARINGS BEFORE 
              BOARD OF VETERANS' APPEALS.

    (a) In General.--Section 7107 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``in subsection (f)'' 
        and inserting ``in subsection (g)'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
            (3) by striking subsections (d) and (e) and inserting the 
        following new subsections:
    ``(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a hearing before the 
Board shall be conducted through picture and voice transmission, by 
electronic or other means, in such a manner that the appellant is not 
present in the same location as the members of the Board during the 
hearing.
    ``(2)(A) A hearing before the Board shall be conducted in person 
upon the request of an appellant.
    ``(B) In the absence of a request under subparagraph (A), a hearing 
before the Board may also be conducted in person as the Board considers 
appropriate.
    ``(e)(1) In a case in which a hearing before the Board is to be 
held as described in subsection (d)(1), the Secretary shall provide 
suitable facilities and equipment to the Board or other components of 
the Department to enable an appellant located at an appropriate 
facility within the area served by a regional office to participate as 
so described.
    ``(2) Any hearing conducted as described in subsection (d)(1) shall 
be conducted in the same manner as, and shall be considered the 
equivalent of, a personal hearing.
    ``(f)(1) In a case in which a hearing before the Board is to be 
held as described in subsection (d)(2), the appellant may request that 
the hearing be held at the principal location of the Board or at a 
facility of the Department located within the area served by a regional 
office of the Department.
    ``(2) A hearing to be held within an area served by a regional 
office of the Department shall (except as provided in paragraph (3)) be 
scheduled to be held in accordance with the place of the case on the 
docket under subsection (a) relative to other cases on the docket for 
which hearings are scheduled to be held within that area.
    ``(3) A hearing to be held within an area served by a regional 
office of the Department may, for cause shown, be advanced on motion 
for an earlier hearing. Any such motion shall set forth succinctly the 
grounds upon which the motion is based. Such a motion may be granted 
only--
            ``(A) if the case involves interpretation of law of general 
        application affecting other claims;
            ``(B) if the appellant is seriously ill or is under severe 
        financial hardship; or
            ``(C) for other sufficient cause shown.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to cases received by the Board of Veterans' Appeals 
pursuant to notices of disagreement submitted on or after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

                      TITLE VII--OUTREACH MATTERS

SEC. 701. PROGRAM TO INCREASE COORDINATION OF OUTREACH EFFORTS BETWEEN 
              THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND FEDERAL, STATE, 
              AND LOCAL AGENCIES AND NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) Program Required.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
carry out a program to assess the feasibility and advisability of using 
State and local government agencies and nonprofit organizations--
            (1) to increase awareness of veterans regarding benefits 
        and services for veterans; and
            (2) to improve coordination of outreach activities 
        regarding such benefits and services between the Secretary and 
        Federal, State, and local government and nonprofit providers of 
        health care and benefit services for veterans.
    (b) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the program for a two-
year period.
    (c) Grants.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out the program 
        through the competitive award of grants to State and local 
        government agencies and nonprofit organizations--
                    (A) to increase the awareness of veterans regarding 
                benefits and services for veterans; and
                    (B) to improve coordination of outreach activities 
                regarding such benefits and services between the 
                Secretary and Federal, State, and local government and 
                nonprofit providers of health care and benefit services 
                for veterans.
            (2) Application.--
                    (A) In general.--A State or local government agency 
                or nonprofit organization seeking a grant under the 
                program shall submit to the Secretary an application 
                therefor in such form and in such manner as the 
                Secretary considers appropriate.
                    (B) Elements.--Each application submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) A description of the consultations, if 
                        any, with the Department of Veterans Affairs in 
                        the development of any proposal under the 
                        application.
                            (ii) A description of the project for which 
                        the applicant is seeking a grant under the 
                        program, including a plan to coordinate under 
                        the program, to the greatest extent possible, 
                        the outreach activities of Federal, State, and 
                        local government agencies that provide health 
                        care, benefits, and services for veterans and 
                        nonprofit organizations that provide such care, 
                        benefits, and services to enhance the awareness 
                        and availability of such care, benefits, and 
                        services.
                            (iii) An agreement to report to the 
                        Secretary standardized data and other 
                        performance measures necessary for the 
                        Secretary to evaluate the program and to 
                        facilitate evaluation of projects for which 
                        grants are awarded under the program.
                            (iv) Such other information as the 
                        Secretary may require.
            (3) Considerations.--
                    (A) In general.--In awarding grants under the 
                program to carry out projects, the Secretary shall 
                consider--
                            (i) where the projects will be carried out 
                        and which populations are targeted; and
                            (ii) the likelihood that each potential 
                        grantee will successfully carry out the grant 
                        proposal.
                    (B) Considerations regarding location and target 
                population.--In taking the matters specified in 
                subparagraph (A)(ii) into consideration, the Secretary 
                shall consider in particular the advisability of 
                awarding grants for projects--
                            (i) carried out in areas with populations 
                        that have a high proportion of veteran 
                        representation;
                            (ii) carried out in a variety of geographic 
                        areas, including urban, rural, and highly rural 
                        areas; and
                            (iii) that target a variety of veteran 
                        populations, including racial and ethnic 
                        minorities, low-income populations, and older 
                        populations.
            (4) Use of funds.--The Secretary shall establish 
        appropriate uses of grant amounts received under the program.
            (5) Oversight of use of funds.--The Secretary shall 
        establish appropriate mechanisms for oversight of the use of 
        grant amounts received under the program, including the 
        evidence grantees must submit to demonstrate use of grant 
        amounts and procedures for the recovery of grant amounts that 
        were improperly used.
            (6) Limitation.--In a fiscal year, not more than 20 percent 
        of all grant amounts awarded in that fiscal year may be awarded 
        to a single State entity.
    (d) State Matching Requirement.--The Secretary may not make a grant 
to a State under subsection (c) unless that State agrees that, with 
respect to the costs to be incurred by the State in carrying out the 
program or projects for which the grant was awarded, the State will 
make available (directly or through donations from public or private 
entities) non-Federal contributions in an amount equal to 50 percent of 
Federal funds provided under the grant.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is hereby authorized to 
be appropriated to carry out this section the following:
            (1) $2,500,000 for fiscal year 2015.
            (2) $2,500,000 for fiscal year 2016.
    (f) Annual Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the 
        completion of the first calendar year beginning after the date 
        of the commencement of the program, and not less frequently 
        than once every year thereafter for the duration of the 
        program, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
        evaluating the program and the projects supported by grants 
        awarded under the program.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The findings and conclusions of the Secretary 
                with respect to the program.
                    (B) An assessment of the benefit to veterans of the 
                program.
                    (C) The performance measures used by the Secretary 
                for purposes of the program and data showing the 
                performance of grantees under the program under such 
                measures.
                    (D) The recommendations of the Secretary as to the 
                feasibility and advisability of continuing or expanding 
                or modifying the program.
    (g) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 702. COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS BETWEEN SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
              AND STATES ON OUTREACH ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 63 is amended by inserting after section 
6306 the following new section:
``Sec. 6306A. Cooperative agreements with States
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may enter into cooperative 
agreements and arrangements with various State agencies and State 
departments to carry out this chapter and to otherwise carry out, 
coordinate, improve, or enhance outreach activities of the Department 
and the States.
    ``(b) Report.--The Secretary shall include in each report submitted 
under section 6308 of this title a description of the agreements and 
arrangements entered into by the Secretary under subsection (a).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 63 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
6306 the following new item:

``6306A. Cooperative agreements with States.''.

SEC. 703. ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON OUTREACH ACTIVITIES OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
establish an advisory committee on outreach activities of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (b) Membership.--The advisory committee shall be composed of 
individuals selected by the Secretary from among the following:
            (1) To the maximum extent practicable, individuals who are 
        eminent in their respective fields of public relations.
            (2) Representatives of organizations with offices that 
        focus on communications and distribute messages through major 
        media news outlets and social media.
            (3) To the maximum extent practicable, individuals with 
        experience communicating financial results and business 
        strategy for purposes of shaping a confident brand image.
            (4) To the maximum extent practicable, individuals with 
        experience with consumer and lifestyle imaging and creating 
        publicity for a particular product or service.
            (5) To the maximum extent practicable, veterans who have 
        experience in press and public relations.
    (c) Duties.--The advisory committee shall advise the Assistant 
Secretary for Public and Intergovernmental Affairs--
            (1) to ensure that the Department of Veterans Affairs is 
        strategically and effectively--
                    (A) engaging the public and Department stakeholders 
                to increase awareness nationally regarding all benefits 
                and services furnished by the Department;
                    (B) explaining new or changing policies of the 
                Department;
                    (C) improving the image and reputation of the 
                Department; and
                    (D) coordinating and collaborating with national 
                community-based organizations, nonprofits, and State 
                and local government agencies;
            (2) to assist the Secretary in conducting such other press 
        or public relations activities relating to outreach activities 
        of the Department as the Secretary and the Assistant Secretary 
        for Public and Intergovernmental Affairs consider appropriate; 
        and
            (3) to ensure coordination and collaboration on efforts 
        within the Department for the development, implementation, and 
        review of local outreach with respect to benefits that include 
        the following:
                    (A) Compensation and pension benefits.
                    (B) Insurance benefits.
                    (C) Burial and memorial benefits.
                    (D) Education benefits.
                    (E) Vocational rehabilitation and employment 
                benefits.
                    (F) Readjustment counseling benefits.
                    (G) Loan guarantee benefits.
                    (H) Such other benefits as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
    (d) Location of Meetings.--Each meeting of the advisory committee 
shall take place at a location that is property of the Department and 
shall, to the maximum extent practicable, use teleconference 
technology.
    (e) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with and seek the 
advice of the advisory committee not less frequently than quarterly on 
matters relating to the duties of the advisory committee under 
subsection (c).
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not less frequently than once every 90 
        days for the first year and semiannually thereafter, the 
        advisory committee shall submit to Congress and to the 
        Secretary a report on outreach activities of the Department.
            (2) Recommendations.--Each report submitted under paragraph 
        (1) shall include such recommendations for legislative and 
        administrative action as the advisory committee considers 
        appropriate to improve the press and public relations of the 
        Department relating to outreach.
    (g) Termination.--The advisory committee shall terminate on October 
1, 2015, and the requirements and authorities under this section shall 
terminate on such date.
    (h) Outreach Defined.--In this section, the term ``outreach'' has 
the meaning given the term in section 6301 of title 38, United States 
Code.

SEC. 704. ADVISORY BOARDS ON OUTREACH ACTIVITIES OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS RELATING TO HEALTH CARE.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--For each entity described in paragraph 
        (2), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, acting through 
        the director of that entity, establish not later than 180 days 
        after the effective date specified in subsection (h) an 
        advisory board at that entity on matters relating to outreach 
        activities of the Department of Veterans Affairs at that 
        entity.
            (2) Entity described.--An entity described in this 
        paragraph is--
                    (A) a healthcare system of the Department; or
                    (B) a Veterans Integrated System Network, if such 
                Veterans Integrated System Network does not contain a 
                healthcare system.
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) In general.--Each advisory board established under 
        subsection (a)(1) shall be, to the maximum extent practicable, 
        composed of individuals selected by the Secretary from among 
        the following:
                    (A) Individuals who are eminent in their respective 
                fields of public relations.
                    (B) Representatives of organizations with offices 
                that focus on communications and distribute messages 
                through major media news outlets and social media.
                    (C) Individuals with experience communicating 
                financial results and business strategy for purposes of 
                shaping a confident brand image.
                    (D) Individuals with experience with consumer and 
                lifestyle imaging and creating publicity for a 
                particular product or service.
                    (E) Employees of the Department who are involved in 
                press and public relations strategy for an entity 
                described in subsection (a)(2).
                    (F) To the maximum extent practicable, veterans who 
                have experience in press and public relations.
            (2) Voluntary participation.--The participation of an 
        individual selected under paragraph (1) shall be at the 
        election of the individual.
    (c) Duties.--Each advisory board established under subsection 
(a)(1) at an entity described in subsection (a)(2) shall advise the 
Assistant Secretary for Public and Intergovernmental Affairs--
            (1) to ensure that the Department of Veterans Affairs is 
        strategically and effectively--
                    (A) engaging the public and Department stakeholders 
                to increase awareness nationally regarding benefits and 
                services furnished by the Department;
                    (B) explaining new or changing policies of the 
                Department;
                    (C) improving the image and reputation of the 
                Department;
                    (D) coordinating and collaborating with national 
                community-based organizations, nonprofits, and State 
                and local government agencies; and
                    (E) coordinating and collaborating on efforts 
                within the Department for the development, 
                implementation, and review of local outreach with 
                respect to benefits that include--
                            (i) compensation and pension benefits;
                            (ii) insurance benefits;
                            (iii) burial and memorial benefits;
                            (iv) education benefits;
                            (v) vocational rehabilitation and 
                        employment benefits;
                            (vi) readjustment counseling benefits;
                            (vii) loan guarantee benefits; and
                            (viii) such other benefits as the Secretary 
                        considers appropriate; and
            (2) to assist the director of that entity in conducting 
        such other press or public relations activities relating to 
        outreach activities of the Department as that advisory board 
        considers appropriate.
    (d) Meeting Location.--
            (1) In general.--If teleconference technology is not used, 
        meetings of each advisory board established under subsection 
        (a)(1) shall be held at a location that is property of the 
        Department.
            (2) Teleconference technology.--Each advisory board shall 
        use, to the maximum extent practicable, teleconference 
        technology.
    (e) Consultation.--Each director of an entity described in 
subsection (a)(2) shall consult with and seek the advice of the 
advisory board established at such entity not less frequently than once 
every two months on matters relating to the duties of the advisory 
board under subsection (c).
    (f) Annual Reports.--Not less frequently than each year, each 
advisory board established under subsection (a)(1) shall submit to the 
Secretary a report with such information as may be beneficial to the 
Secretary in preparing the reports required by section 6308 of title 
38, United States Code.
    (g) Termination.--Each advisory board established under subsection 
(a)(1) and the authorities and requirements of this section shall 
terminate three years after the effective date specified in subsection 
(h).
    (h) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 705. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR PERIODIC REPORTS TO CONGRESS 
              ON OUTREACH ACTIVITIES OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Section 6308 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``even-numbered''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``biennial'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``for 
                legislative and administrative action'' after 
                ``Recommendations''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(3) Recommendations that such administrative actions as 
        may be taken--
                    ``(A) to maximize resources for outreach activities 
                of the Department; and
                    ``(B) to focus outreach efforts on activities that 
                are proven to be more effective.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Section heading.--The heading for section 6308 is 
        amended by striking ``Biennial'' and inserting ``Annual''.
            (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 63 is amended by striking the item 
        relating to section 6308 and inserting the following new item:

``6308. Annual report to Congress.''.

SEC. 706. BUDGET TRANSPARENCY FOR OUTREACH ACTIVITIES OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 63 is amended by inserting after section 
6308 the following new section:
``Sec. 6309. Budget transparency
    ``(a) Budget Requirements.--In the budget justification materials 
submitted to Congress in support of the Department budget for a fiscal 
year (as submitted with the budget of the President under section 
1105(a) of title 31), the Secretary shall include a separate statement 
of the amount requested for such fiscal year for activities of the 
Office of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs as follows:
            ``(1) For outreach activities of the Department in 
        aggregate.
            ``(2) For outreach activities of each element of the 
        Department specified in subsection (b)(1).
    ``(b) Procedures for Effective Coordination and Collaboration.--(1) 
Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the 
Comprehensive Veterans Health and Benefits and Military Retirement Pay 
Restoration Act of 2014, the Secretary shall establish and maintain 
procedures for the Office of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs to 
ensure the effective coordination and collaboration of outreach 
activities of the Department between and among the following:
            ``(A) Office of the Secretary.
            ``(B) Veterans Health Administration.
            ``(C) Veterans Benefits Administration.
            ``(D) National Cemetery Administration.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall--
            ``(A) beginning after the date on which the Secretary 
        establishes procedures under paragraph (1), not less frequently 
        than once every two years conduct a review of the procedures 
        established and maintained under paragraph (1) to ensure that 
        such procedures meet the requirements of such paragraph;
            ``(B) make such modifications to such procedures as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate based upon reviews conducted 
        under subparagraph (A) in order to better meet such 
        requirements; and
            ``(C) not later than 45 days after completing a review 
        under subparagraph (A), submit to Congress a report on the 
        findings of such review.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 63 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
6308 the following new item:

``6309. Budget transparency.''.

TITLE VIII--ENHANCEMENT OF RIGHTS UNDER SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL RELIEF ACT

SEC. 801. MODIFICATION OF PERIOD DETERMINING WHICH ACTIONS ARE COVERED 
              UNDER STAY OF PROCEEDINGS AND ADJUSTMENT OF OBLIGATION 
              PROTECTIONS CONCERNING MORTGAGES AND TRUST DEEDS OF 
              MEMBERS OF UNIFORMED SERVICES.

    (a) In General.--Section 303(b) of the Servicemembers Civil Relief 
Act (50 U.S.C. App. 533(b)) is amended by striking ``filed'' and 
inserting ``pending''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 710(d) of the Honoring 
America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 2012 
(Public Law 112-154; 126 Stat. 1208) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph (1):
            ``(1) Sunset and revival.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subsections (b) and (c) of 
                section 303 of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 
                U.S.C. App. 533), as amended by subsections (a) and (b) 
                of this section, are amended by striking `within one 
                year' each place it appears and inserting `within 90 
                days'.
                    ``(B) Effective date.--The amendments made by 
                subparagraph (A) shall take effect on January 1, 
                2015.''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (3).

SEC. 802. PROTECTIONS FOR MEMBERS OF UNIFORMED SERVICES REGARDING 
              PROFESSIONAL LICENSES.

    (a) In General.--Title VII of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act 
(50 U.S.C. App. 701 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:

``SEC. 707. PROFESSIONAL LICENSES.

    ``(a) Expiration During Period in Which Servicemembers Are Eligible 
for Hostile Fire or Imminent Danger Special Pay.--If a license issued 
by a State or local licensing authority to a servicemember would 
otherwise expire during a period in which such servicemember is 
eligible for hostile fire or imminent danger special pay under section 
310 of title 37, United States Code, such State or local licensing 
authority shall delay the expiration of such license until not earlier 
than the date that is 180 days after the date on which such period of 
eligibility ends.
    ``(b) Continuing Education Requirements During Period in Which 
Servicemembers Are Eligible for Hostile Fire or Imminent Danger Special 
Pay.--If a State or local licensing authority otherwise requires a 
servicemember to meet any continuing education requirements to maintain 
a license for a trade or profession during a period in which such 
servicemember is eligible for hostile fire or imminent danger special 
pay under section 310 of title 37, United States Code, such State or 
local licensing authority shall delay such continuing education 
requirement until not earlier than the date that is 180 days after the 
date on which such period of eligibility ends.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
such Act (50 U.S.C. App. 501(b)) is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 706 the following new item:

``Sec. 707. Professional licenses and certifications.''.

SEC. 803. PROHIBITION ON DENIAL OF CREDIT BECAUSE OF ELIGIBILITY FOR 
              PROTECTION.

    Section 108 of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 
518) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Application by'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) Application or Receipt.--Application by''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Eligibility.--
            ``(1) In general.--In addition to the protections under 
        subsection (a), an individual who is entitled to any right or 
        protection provided under this Act may not be denied or refused 
        credit or be subject to any other action described under 
        paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (a) solely by reason 
        of such entitlement.
            ``(2) Construction.--Nothing in this subsection shall be 
        construed to prohibit a lender from considering all relevant 
        factors, other than the entitlement of an individual to a right 
        or protection provided under this Act, in making a 
        determination as to whether it is appropriate to extend 
        credit.''.

SEC. 804. INTEREST RATE LIMITATION ON DEBT ENTERED INTO DURING MILITARY 
              SERVICE TO CONSOLIDATE OR REFINANCE STUDENT LOANS 
              INCURRED BEFORE MILITARY SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 207 of the 
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 527) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``on debt incurred 
        before service'' after ``Limitation to 6 percent'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph (2):
            ``(2) Limitation to 6 percent on debt incurred during 
        service to consolidate or refinance student loans incurred 
        before service.--An obligation or liability bearing interest at 
        a rate in excess of 6 percent per year that is incurred by a 
        servicemember, or the servicemember and the servicemember's 
        spouse jointly, during military service to consolidate or 
        refinance one or more student loans incurred by the 
        servicemember before such military service shall not bear an 
        interest at a rate in excess of 6 percent during the period of 
        military service.'';
            (4) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by paragraph (2) of 
        this subsection, by inserting ``or (2)'' after ``paragraph 
        (1)''; and
            (5) in paragraph (4), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``paragraph (2)'' and inserting ``paragraph (3)''.
    (b) Implementation of Limitation.--Subsection (b) of such section 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the interest rate 
        limitation in subsection (a)'' and inserting ``an interest rate 
        limitation in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a)''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``as of 
                date of order to active duty''; and
                    (B) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``in the case of an obligation or liability 
                covered by subsection (a)(1), or as of the date the 
                servicemember (or servicemember and spouse jointly) 
                incurs the obligation or liability concerned under 
                subsection (a)(2)''.
    (c) Student Loan Defined.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(3) Student loan.--The term `student loan' means the 
        following:
                    ``(A) A Federal student loan made, insured, or 
                guaranteed under title IV of the Higher Education Act 
                of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.).
                    ``(B) A private student loan as that term is 
                defined in section 140(a) of the Truth in Lending Act 
                (15 U.S.C. 1650(a)).''.

SEC. 805. TERMINATION OF RESIDENTIAL LEASES AFTER ASSIGNMENT OR 
              RELOCATION TO QUARTERS OF UNITED STATES OR HOUSING 
              FACILITY UNDER JURISDICTION OF UNIFORMED SERVICE.

    (a) Termination of Residential Leases.--
            (1) In general.--Section 305 of the Servicemembers Civil 
        Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 535) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or'' 
                        at the end;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) in the case of a lease described in 
                subsection (b)(1) and subparagraph (C) of such 
                subsection, the date the lessee is assigned to or 
                otherwise relocates to quarters or a housing facility 
                as described in such subparagraph.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b)(1)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or'' 
                        at the end;
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following 
                        new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) the lease is executed by or on behalf of a 
                person who thereafter and during the term of the lease 
                is assigned to or otherwise relocates to quarters of 
                the United States or a housing facility under the 
                jurisdiction of a uniformed service (as defined in 
                section 101 of title 37, United States Code), including 
                housing provided under the Military Housing 
                Privatization Initiative.''.
            (2) Manner of termination.--Subsection (c)(1) of such 
        section is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by inserting ``in the case of a lease 
                        described in subsection (b)(1) and subparagraph 
                        (A) or (B) of such subsection,'' before ``by 
                        delivery''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``and'' at the end;
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
                subparagraph (C); and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
                following new subparagraph (B):
                    ``(B) in the case of a lease described in 
                subsection (b)(1) and subparagraph (C) of such 
                subsection, by delivery by the lessee of written notice 
                of such termination, and a letter from the 
                servicemember's commanding officer indicating that the 
                servicemember has been assigned to or is otherwise 
                relocating to quarters of the United States or a 
                housing facility under the jurisdiction of a uniformed 
                service (as defined in section 101 of title 37, United 
                States Code), to the lessor (or the lessor's grantee), 
                or to the lessor's agent (or the agent's grantee); 
                and''.
    (b) Definition of Military Orders and Continental United States for 
Purposes of Act.--
            (1) Transfer of definitions.--Such Act is further amended 
        by transferring paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 305(i) (50 
        U.S.C. App. 535(i)) to the end of section 101 (50 U.S.C. App. 
        511) and redesignating such paragraphs, as so transferred, as 
        paragraphs (10) and (11).
            (2) Conforming amendments.--Such Act is further amended--
                    (A) in section 305 (50 U.S.C. App. 535), as amended 
                by paragraph (1), by striking subsection (i); and
                    (B) in section 705 (50 U.S.C. App. 595), by 
                striking ``or naval'' both places it appears.

SEC. 806. PROTECTION OF SURVIVING SPOUSE WITH RESPECT TO MORTGAGE 
              FORECLOSURE.

    (a) In General.--Title III of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act 
(50 U.S.C. App. 531 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 303 
(50 U.S.C. App. 533) the following new section:

``SEC. 303A. PROTECTION OF SURVIVING SPOUSE WITH RESPECT TO MORTGAGE 
              FORECLOSURE.

    ``(a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), with respect to a 
servicemember who dies while in military service and who has a 
surviving spouse who is the servicemember's successor in interest to 
property covered under section 303(a), section 303 shall apply to the 
surviving spouse with respect to that property during the one-year 
period beginning on the date of such death in the same manner as if the 
servicemember had not died.
    ``(b) Notice Required.--
            ``(1) In general.--To be covered under this section with 
        respect to property, a surviving spouse shall submit written 
        notice that such surviving spouse is so covered to the 
        mortgagee, trustee, or other creditor of the mortgage, trust 
        deed, or other security in the nature of a mortgage with which 
        the property is secured.
            ``(2) Time.--Notice provided under paragraph (1) shall be 
        provided with respect to a surviving spouse anytime during the 
        one-year period beginning on the date of death of the 
        servicemember with respect to whom the surviving spouse is to 
        receive coverage under this section.
            ``(3) Address.--Notice provided under paragraph (1) with 
        respect to property shall be provided via e-mail, facsimile, 
        standard post, or express mail to facsimile numbers and 
        addresses, as the case may be, designated by the servicer of 
        the mortgage, trust deed, or other security in the nature of a 
        mortgage with which the property is secured.
            ``(4) Manner.--Notice provided under paragraph (1) shall be 
        provided in writing by using a form designed under paragraph 
        (5) or submitting a copy of a Department of Defense or 
        Department of Veterans Affairs document evidencing the military 
        service-related death of a spouse while in military service.
            ``(5) Official forms.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
        design and distribute an official Department of Defense form 
        that can be used by an individual to give notice under 
        paragraph (1).''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Section 303A of such Act, as added by 
subsection (a), shall apply with respect to deaths that occur on or 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
such Act (50 U.S.C. App. 501) is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 303 the following new item:

``Sec. 303A. Protection of surviving spouse with respect to mortgage 
                            foreclosure.''.

SEC. 807. IMPROVED PROTECTION OF MEMBERS OF UNIFORMED SERVICES AGAINST 
              DEFAULT JUDGMENTS.

    (a) Modification of Plaintiff Affidavit Filing Requirement.--
Paragraph (1) of section 201(b) of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act 
(50 U.S.C. App. 521(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses 
        (i) and (ii), respectively, and indenting such clauses two ems 
        to the right;
            (2) in the matter before clause (i), as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1), by striking ``In any'' and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(A) In general.--In any''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph 
        (B):
                    ``(B) Due diligence.--Before filing the affidavit, 
                the plaintiff shall conduct a diligent and reasonable 
                investigation to determine whether or not the defendant 
                is in military service, including a search of available 
                records of the Department of Defense and any other 
                information reasonably available to the plaintiff. The 
                affidavit shall set forth all steps taken to determine 
                the defendant's military status and shall have attached 
                copies of the records on which the plaintiff relied in 
                drafting the affidavit.''.
    (b) Appointment of Attorney to Represent Defendant in Military 
Service.--Paragraph (2) of such section (50 U.S.C. App. 521(b)) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``If in an action'' and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(A) In general.--If in an action'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A), as designated by paragraph (1), by 
        striking ``If an attorney'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(C) Limitations on appointed attorney.--If an 
                attorney'';
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (A), as designated by 
        paragraph (1), the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(B) Due diligence.--If the court appoints an 
                attorney to represent the defendant--
                            ``(i) the attorney shall conduct a diligent 
                        and reasonable investigation to determine 
                        whether or not the defendant is in military 
                        service, including a search of available 
                        records of the Department of Defense and any 
                        other information reasonably available to the 
                        attorney; and
                            ``(ii) the plaintiff shall submit to the 
                        attorney such information as the plaintiff may 
                        have concerning the whereabouts or identity of 
                        the defendant.''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) Treatment of attorneys fees.--The reasonable 
                fees of an attorney appointed to represent a 
                servicemember shall be treated as costs of court for 
                court cost purposes, unless the creditor seeks relief 
                from such charges from the court.''.

SEC. 808. CLARIFICATION REGARDING APPLICATION OF ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY 
              OF ATTORNEY GENERAL AND PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION UNDER 
              SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL RELIEF ACT.

    Sections 801 and 802 of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 
U.S.C. App. 597 and 597a) shall apply as if such sections were included 
in the enactment of the Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940 
(54 Stat. 1178, chapter 888) and included in the restatement of such 
Act in Public Law 108-189.

SEC. 809. CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.

    (a) In General.--The heading for section 305 of the Servicemembers 
Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 535) is amended by striking 
``residential or motor vehicle leases'' and inserting ``leases of 
premises occupied and motor vehicles used''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
such Act (50 U.S.C. App. 501(b)) is amended by striking the item 
relating to section 305 and inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 305. Termination of leases of premises occupied and motor 
                            vehicles used.''.

                        TITLE IX--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 901. REPEAL OF REDUCTIONS MADE BY BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF 2013.

    Section 403 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 is repealed as of 
the date of the enactment of such Act.

SEC. 902. CONSIDERATION BY SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OF RESOURCES 
              DISPOSED OF FOR LESS THAN FAIR MARKET VALUE BY 
              INDIVIDUALS APPLYING FOR PENSION.

    (a) Veterans.--Section 1522 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The Secretary''; 
                and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2)(A) If a veteran otherwise eligible for payment of pension 
under section 1513 or 1521 of this title or the spouse of such veteran 
disposes of covered resources for less than fair market value on or 
after the look-back date described in subparagraph (C)(i), the 
Secretary shall deny or discontinue the payment of pension to such 
veteran under section 1513 or 1521 of this title, as the case may be, 
for months during the period beginning on the date described in 
subparagraph (D) and equal to the number of months calculated as 
provided in subparagraph (E).
    ``(B)(i) For purposes of this paragraph, a covered resource is any 
resource that was a part of the corpus of the estate of the veteran or, 
if the veteran has a spouse, the corpus of the estates of the veteran 
and of the veteran's spouse, that the Secretary considers that under 
all the circumstances, if the veteran or spouse had not disposed of 
such resource, it would be reasonable that the resource (or some 
portion of the resource) be consumed for the veteran's maintenance.
    ``(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, the Secretary may consider, 
in accordance with regulations the Secretary shall prescribe, a 
transfer of an asset (including a transfer of an asset to an annuity, 
trust, or other financial instrument or investment) a disposal of a 
covered resource for less than fair market value if such transfer 
reduces the amount in the corpus of the estate of the veteran or, if 
the veteran has a spouse, the corpus of the estates of the veteran and 
of the veteran's spouse, that the Secretary considers, under all the 
circumstances, would be reasonable to be consumed for the veteran's 
maintenance.
    ``(C)(i) The look-back date described in this clause is a date that 
is 36 months before the date described in clause (ii).
    ``(ii) The date described in this clause is the date on which the 
veteran applies for pension under section 1513 or 1521 of this title 
or, if later, the date on which the veteran (or the spouse of the 
veteran) disposes of covered resources for less than fair market value.
    ``(D) The date described in this subparagraph is the first day of 
the first month in or after which covered resources were disposed of 
for less than fair market value and which does not occur in any other 
period of ineligibility under this paragraph.
    ``(E) The number of months calculated under this subparagraph shall 
be equal to--
            ``(i) the total, cumulative uncompensated value of the 
        portion of covered resources so disposed of by the veteran (or 
        the spouse of the veteran) on or after the look-back date 
        described in subparagraph (C)(i) that the Secretary determines 
        would reasonably have been consumed for the veteran's 
        maintenance; divided by
            ``(ii) the maximum amount of monthly pension that is 
        payable to a veteran under section 1513 or 1521 of this title, 
        including the maximum amount of increased pension payable under 
        such sections on account of family members, but not including 
        any amount of pension payable under such sections because a 
        veteran is in need of regular aid and attendance or is 
        permanently housebound,
rounded down, in the case of any fraction, to the nearest whole number, 
but shall not in any case exceed 36 months.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The Secretary''; 
                and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2)(A) If a veteran otherwise eligible for payment of increased 
pension under subsection (c), (d), (e), or (f) of section 1521 of this 
title on account of a child, the spouse of the veteran, or the child 
disposes of covered resources for less than fair market value on or 
after the look-back date described in subparagraph (C)(i), the 
Secretary shall deny or discontinue payment of such increased pension 
for months during the period beginning on the date described in 
subparagraph (D) and equal to the number of months calculated as 
provided in subparagraph (E).
    ``(B)(i) For purposes of this paragraph, a covered resource is any 
resource that was a part of the corpus of the estate of the child that 
the Secretary considers that under all the circumstances, if the 
veteran, the spouse of the veteran, or the child had not disposed of 
such resource, it would be reasonable that the resource (or some 
portion of the resource) be consumed for the child's maintenance.
    ``(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, the Secretary may consider, 
in accordance with regulations the Secretary shall prescribe, a 
transfer of an asset (including a transfer of an asset to an annuity, 
trust, or other financial instrument or investment) a disposal of a 
covered resource for less than fair market value if such transfer 
reduces the amount in the corpus of the estate of the child that the 
Secretary considers, under all the circumstances, would be reasonable 
to be consumed for the child's maintenance.
    ``(C)(i) The look-back date described in this clause is a date that 
is 36 months before the date described in clause (ii).
    ``(ii) The date described in this clause is the date on which the 
veteran applies for payment of increased pension under subsection (c), 
(d), (e), or (f) of section 1521 of this title on account of a child 
or, if later, the date on which the veteran, the spouse of the veteran, 
or the child disposes of covered resources for less than fair market 
value.
    ``(D) The date described in this subparagraph is the first day of 
the first month in or after which covered resources were disposed of 
for less than fair market value and which does not occur in any other 
period of ineligibility under this paragraph.
    ``(E) The number of months calculated under this subparagraph shall 
be equal to--
            ``(i) the total, cumulative uncompensated value of the 
        portion of the covered resources so disposed of by the veteran, 
        the spouse of the veteran, or the child on or after the look-
        back date described in subparagraph (C)(i) that the Secretary 
        determines would reasonably have been consumed for the child's 
        maintenance; divided by
            ``(ii) the maximum amount of increased monthly pension that 
        is payable to a veteran under subsection (c), (d), (e), or (f) 
        of section 1521 of this title on account of a child,
rounded down, in the case of any fraction, to the nearest whole number, 
but shall not in any case exceed 36 months.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c)(1)(A) The Secretary shall not deny or discontinue payment of 
pension under section 1513 or 1521 of this title or payment of 
increased pension under subsection (c), (d), (e), or (f) of section 
1521 of this title on account of a child by reason of the application 
of subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2) of this section to the disposal of 
resources by an individual--
            ``(i) if--
                    ``(I) a satisfactory showing is made to the 
                Secretary (in accordance with regulations promulgated 
                by the Secretary) that all resources disposed of for 
                less than fair market value have been returned to the 
                individual who disposed of the resources; or
                    ``(II) the Secretary determines, under procedures 
                established by the Secretary in accordance with 
                subparagraph (B), that the denial or discontinuance of 
                payment would work an undue hardship; or
            ``(ii) to the extent that any portion of the resources 
        disposed of for less than fair market value have been returned 
        to the individual who disposed of the resources.
    ``(B) Undue hardship would be worked by the denial or 
discontinuance of payment for purposes of subparagraph (A)(i)(II) if 
the denial or discontinuance of payment would deprive the individual 
during the period of denial or discontinuance--
            ``(i) of medical care such that the individual's life or 
        health would be endangered;
            ``(ii) of necessary food or clothing, or other necessities 
        of life; or
            ``(iii) on such other basis as the Secretary shall specify 
        in the procedures required by subparagraph (A)(i)(II).
    ``(C) If payment of pension or increased pension that would 
otherwise be denied or discontinued by reason of the application of 
subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2) is denied or discontinued only in part by 
reason of the return of resources as described in subparagraph (A)(ii), 
the period of the denial or discontinuance as determined pursuant to 
subparagraph (E) of subsection (a)(2) or (b)(2), as applicable, shall 
be recalculated to take into account such return of resources.
    ``(2) At the time a veteran applies for pension under section 1513 
or 1521 of this title or increased pension under subsection (c), (d), 
(e), or (f) of section 1521 of this title on account of a child, and at 
such other times as the Secretary considers appropriate, the Secretary 
shall--
            ``(A) inform such veteran of the provisions of subsections 
        (a)(2) and (b)(2) providing for a period of ineligibility for 
        payment of pension under such sections for individuals who make 
        certain dispositions of resources for less than fair market 
        value, including the exception for hardship from such period of 
        ineligibility;
            ``(B) obtain from such veteran information which may be 
        used in determining whether or not a period of ineligibility 
        for such payments would be required by reason of such 
        subsections; and
            ``(C) provide such veteran a timely process for determining 
        whether or not the exception for hardship shall apply to such 
        veteran.''.
    (b) Surviving Spouses and Children.--Section 1543 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph 
                (3);
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following 
                new paragraph (2):
    ``(2)(A) If a surviving spouse otherwise eligible for payment of 
pension under section 1541 of this title disposes of covered resources 
for less than fair market value on or after the look-back date 
described in subparagraph (C)(i), the Secretary shall deny or 
discontinue the payment of pension to such surviving spouse under 
section 1541 of this title for months during the period beginning on 
the date described in subparagraph (D) and equal to the number of 
months calculated as provided in subparagraph (E).
    ``(B)(i) For purposes of this paragraph, a covered resource is any 
resource that was a part of the corpus of the estate of the surviving 
spouse that the Secretary considers that under all the circumstances, 
if the surviving spouse had not disposed of such resource, it would be 
reasonable that the resource (or some portion of the resource) be 
consumed for the surviving spouse's maintenance.
    ``(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, the Secretary may consider, 
in accordance with regulations the Secretary shall prescribe, a 
transfer of an asset (including a transfer of an asset to an annuity, 
trust, or other financial instrument or investment) a disposal of a 
covered resource for less than fair market value if such transfer 
reduces the amount in the corpus of the estate of the surviving spouse 
that the Secretary considers, under all the circumstances, would be 
reasonable to be consumed for the surviving spouse's maintenance.
    ``(C)(i) The look-back date described in this clause is a date that 
is 36 months before the date described in clause (ii).
    ``(ii) The date described in this clause is the date on which the 
surviving spouse applies for pension under section 1541 of this title 
or, if later, the date on which the surviving spouse disposes of 
covered resources for less than fair market value.
    ``(D) The date described in this subparagraph is the first day of 
the first month in or after which covered resources were disposed of 
for less than fair market value and which does not occur in any other 
period of ineligibility under this paragraph.
    ``(E) The number of months calculated under this subparagraph shall 
be equal to--
            ``(i) the total, cumulative uncompensated value of the 
        portion of the covered resources so disposed of by the 
        surviving spouse on or after the look-back date described in 
        subparagraph (C)(i) that the Secretary determines would 
        reasonably have been consumed for the surviving spouse's 
        maintenance; divided by
            ``(ii) the maximum amount of monthly pension that is 
        payable to a surviving spouse under section 1541 of this title, 
        including the maximum amount of increased pension payable under 
        such section on account of a child, but not including any 
        amount of pension payable under such section because a 
        surviving spouse is in need of regular aid and attendance or is 
        permanently housebound,
rounded down, in the case of any fraction, to the nearest whole number, 
but shall not in any case exceed 36 months.'';
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(4)(A) If a surviving spouse otherwise eligible for payment of 
increased pension under subsection (c), (d), or (e) of section 1541 of 
this title on account of a child or the child disposes of covered 
resources for less than fair market value on or after the look-back 
date described in subparagraph (C)(i), the Secretary shall deny or 
discontinue payment of such increased pension for months during the 
period beginning on the date described in subparagraph (D) and equal to 
the number of months calculated as provided in subparagraph (E).
    ``(B)(i) For purposes of this paragraph, a covered resource is any 
resource that was a part of the corpus of the estate of the child that 
the Secretary considers that under all the circumstances, if the 
surviving spouse or the child had not disposed of such resource, it 
would be reasonable that the resource (or some portion of the resource) 
be consumed for the child's maintenance.
    ``(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, the Secretary may consider, 
in accordance with regulations the Secretary shall prescribe, a 
transfer of an asset (including a transfer of an asset to an annuity, 
trust, or other financial instrument or investment) a disposal of a 
covered resource for less than fair market value if such transfer 
reduces the amount in the corpus of the estate of the child that the 
Secretary considers, under all the circumstances, would be reasonable 
to be consumed for the child's maintenance.
    ``(C)(i) The look-back date described in this clause is a date that 
is 36 months before the date described in clause (ii).
    ``(ii) The date described in this clause is the date on which the 
surviving spouse applies for payment of increased pension under 
subsection (c), (d), or (e) of section 1541 of this title on account of 
a child or, if later, the date on which the surviving spouse (or the 
child) disposes of covered resources for less than fair market value.
    ``(D) The date described in this subparagraph is the first day of 
the first month in or after which covered resources were disposed of 
for less than fair market value and which does not occur in any other 
period of ineligibility under this paragraph.
    ``(E) The number of months calculated under this clause shall be 
equal to--
            ``(i) the total, cumulative uncompensated value of the 
        portion of the covered resources so disposed of by the 
        surviving spouse (or the child) on or after the look-back date 
        described in subparagraph (C)(i) that the Secretary determines 
        would reasonably have been consumed for the child's 
        maintenance; divided by
            ``(ii) the maximum amount of increased monthly pension that 
        is payable to a surviving spouse under subsection (c), (d), or 
        (e) of section 1541 of this title on account of a child,
rounded down, in the case of any fraction, to the nearest whole number, 
but shall not in any case exceed 36 months.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The Secretary''; 
                and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
    ``(2)(A) If a child otherwise eligible for payment of pension under 
section 1542 of this title or any person with whom such child is 
residing who is legally responsible for such child's support disposes 
of covered resources for less than fair market value on or after the 
look-back date described in subparagraph (C)(i), the Secretary shall 
deny or discontinue the payment of pension to such child under section 
1542 of this title for months during the period beginning on the date 
described in subparagraph (D) and equal to the number of months 
calculated as provided in subparagraph (E).
    ``(B)(i) For purposes of this paragraph, a covered resource is any 
resource that was a part of the corpus of the estate of the child or 
the corpus of the estate of any person with whom such child is residing 
who is legally responsible for such child's support that the Secretary 
considers that under all the circumstances, if the child or person had 
not disposed of such resource, it would be reasonable that the resource 
(or some portion of the resource) be consumed for the child's 
maintenance.
    ``(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, the Secretary may consider, 
in accordance with regulations the Secretary shall prescribe, a 
transfer of an asset (including a transfer of an asset to an annuity, 
trust, or other financial instrument or investment) a disposal of a 
covered resource for less than fair market value if such transfer 
reduces the amount in the corpus of the estate described in clause (i) 
that the Secretary considers, under all the circumstances, would be 
reasonable to be consumed for the child's maintenance.
    ``(C)(i) The look-back date described in this clause is a date that 
is 36 months before the date described in clause (ii).
    ``(ii) The date described in this clause is the date on which the 
child applies for pension under section 1542 of this title or, if 
later, the date on which the child (or person described in subparagraph 
(B)) disposes of covered resources for less than fair market value.
    ``(D) The date described in this clause is the first day of the 
first month in or after which covered resources were disposed of for 
less than fair market value and which does not occur in any other 
period of ineligibility under this paragraph.
    ``(E) The number of months calculated under this clause shall be 
equal to--
            ``(i) the total, cumulative uncompensated value of the 
        portion of the covered resources so disposed of by the child 
        (or person described in subparagraph (B)) on or after the look-
        back date described in subparagraph (C)(i) that the Secretary 
        determines would reasonably have been consumed for the child's 
        maintenance; divided by
            ``(ii) the maximum amount of monthly pension that is 
        payable to a child under section 1542 of this title,
rounded down, in the case of any fraction, to the nearest whole number, 
but shall not in any case exceed 36 months.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c)(1)(A) The Secretary shall not deny or discontinue payment of 
pension under section 1541 or 1542 of this title or payment of 
increased pension under subsection (c), (d), or (e) of section 1541 of 
this title on account of a child by reason of the application of 
subsection (a)(2), (a)(4), or (b)(2) of this section to the disposal of 
resources by an individual--
            ``(i) if--
                    ``(I) a satisfactory showing is made to the 
                Secretary (in accordance with regulations promulgated 
                by the Secretary) that all resources disposed of for 
                less than fair market value have been returned to the 
                individual who disposed of the resources; or
                    ``(II) the Secretary determines, under procedures 
                established by the Secretary in accordance with 
                subparagraph (B), that the denial or discontinuance of 
                payment would work an undue hardship; or
            ``(ii) to the extent that any portion of the resources 
        disposed of for less than fair market value have been returned 
        to the individual who disposed of the resources.
    ``(B) Undue hardship would be worked by the denial or 
discontinuance of payment for purposes of subparagraph (A)(i)(II) if 
the denial or discontinuance of payment would deprive the individual 
during the period of denial or discontinuance--
            ``(i) of medical care such that the individual's life or 
        health would be endangered;
            ``(ii) of necessary food or clothing, or other necessities 
        of life; or
            ``(iii) on such other basis as the Secretary shall specify 
        in the procedures required by subparagraph (A)(i)(II).
    ``(C) If payment of pension or increased pension that would 
otherwise be denied or discontinued by reason of the application of 
subsection (a)(2), (a)(4), or (b)(2) is denied or discontinued only in 
part by reason of the return of resources as described in subparagraph 
(A)(ii), the period of the denial or discontinuance as determined 
pursuant to subparagraph (E) of subsection (a)(2), (a)(4), or (b)(2), 
as applicable, shall be recalculated to take into account such return 
of resources.
    ``(2) At the time a surviving spouse or child applies for pension 
under section 1541 or 1542 of this title or increased pension under 
subsection (c), (d), or (e) of section 1541 of this title on account of 
a child, and at such other times as the Secretary considers 
appropriate, the Secretary shall--
            ``(A) inform such surviving spouse or child of the 
        provisions of subsections (a)(2), (a)(4), and (b)(2), as 
        applicable, providing for a period of ineligibility for payment 
        of pension or increased pension under such sections for 
        individuals who make certain dispositions of resources for less 
        than fair market value, including the exception for hardship 
        from such period of ineligibility;
            ``(B) obtain from such surviving spouse or child 
        information which may be used in determining whether or not a 
        period of ineligibility for such payments would be required by 
        reason of such subsections; and
            ``(C) provide such surviving spouse or child a timely 
        process for determining whether or not the exception for 
        hardship shall apply to such surviving spouse or child.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--Subsections (a)(2), (b)(2), and (c) of section 
1522 of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), and 
subsections (a)(2), (a)(4), (b)(2), and (c) of section 1543 of such 
title, as added by subsection (b), shall take effect on the date that 
is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply 
with respect to payments of pension and increased pension applied for 
after such date and to payments of pension and increased pension for 
which eligibility is redetermined after such date, except that no 
reduction in pension shall be made under such subsections because of 
any disposal of covered resources made before such date.
    (d) Annual Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 months after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than once 
        each year thereafter through 2018, the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress 
        a report on the administration of subsections (a)(2), (b)(2), 
        and (c) of section 1522 of title 38, United States Code, as 
        added by subsection (a), and subsections (a)(2), (a)(4), 
        (b)(2), and (c) of section 1543 of such title, as added by 
        subsection (b), during the most recent 12-month period.
            (2) Elements.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following, for the period covered by the 
        report:
                    (A) The number of individuals who applied for 
                pension under chapter 15 of such title.
                    (B) The number of individuals who received pension 
                under such chapter.
                    (C) The number of individuals with respect to whom 
                the Secretary denied or discontinued payment of pension 
                under the subsections referred to in paragraph (1).
                    (D) A description of any trends identified by the 
                Secretary regarding pension payments that have occurred 
                as a result of the amendments made by this section.
                    (E) Such other information as the Secretary 
                considers appropriate.
            (3) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the 
                Select Committee on Aging of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives.

SEC. 903. EXTENSION OF REDUCED PENSION FOR CERTAIN VETERANS COVERED BY 
              MEDICAID PLANS FOR SERVICES FURNISHED BY NURSING 
              FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (d)(7) of section 5503 is amended by 
striking ``November 30, 2016'' and inserting ``September 30, 2023''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Section heading.--The section heading of such section 
        is amended to read as follows: ``Reduced pension for certain 
        hospitalized veterans and certain veterans receiving 
        domiciliary, nursing home, or nursing facility care''.
            (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 55 is amended by striking the item 
        relating to section 5503 and inserting the following new item:

``5503. Reduced pension for certain hospitalized veterans and certain 
                            veterans receiving domiciliary, nursing 
                            home, or nursing facility care.''.

SEC. 904. CONDITIONS ON AWARD OF PER DIEM PAYMENTS BY SECRETARY OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS FOR PROVISION OF HOUSING OR SERVICES TO 
              HOMELESS VETERANS.

    (a) Condition.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2012(c)(1) is amended by striking 
        ``unless the facilities'' and all that follows through ``may 
        specify.'' and inserting the following: ``unless the Secretary 
        certifies the following:
            ``(A) That the building where the grant recipient or 
        eligible entity provides housing or services for which the 
        grant recipient or eligible entity would receive such payment 
        is in compliance with the codes relevant to the operations and 
        level of care provided, including applicable provisions of the 
        most recently published version of the Life Safety Code of the 
        National Fire Protection Association or such other comparable 
        fire and safety requirements as the Secretary may specify.
            ``(B) That such building and such housing or services are 
        in compliance with licensing requirements, fire and safety 
        requirements, and any other requirements in the jurisdiction in 
        which the building is located regarding the condition of the 
        building and the provision of such housing or services.''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) 
        shall apply with respect to an application for a per diem 
        payment under section 2012 of title 38, United States Code, 
        submitted on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Annual Inspections Required.--Section 2012 is amended by 
striking subsection (b) and inserting the following new subsection (b):
    ``(b)(1) Not less frequently than once each fiscal year, the 
Secretary shall inspect each facility of each grant recipient or entity 
eligible for payments under subsection (a) at which the recipients and 
entities provide services under section 2011 of this title or this 
section.
    ``(2) Except as provided in paragraph (1), inspections made under 
such paragraph shall be made at such times as the Secretary considers 
necessary.
    ``(3) An inspection of a facility of a recipient or entity 
described in paragraph (1) made under such paragraph may be made with 
or without prior notice to the recipient or entity, as the Secretary 
considers appropriate.
    ``(4) No per diem payment may be provided to a grant recipient or 
eligible entity under this section unless the facilities of the grant 
recipient or eligible entity meet such standards as the Secretary shall 
prescribe.''.
    (c) Revocation of Certification Authorized.--Subsection (c) of such 
section is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (4) and (5), respectively;
            (2) in paragraph (1), as amended by subsection (a)(1), by 
        striking ``in paragraph (2)'' and inserting ``in paragraph 
        (4)''; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph (2):
    ``(2) The Secretary may revoke any certification made under 
paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that such certification is no 
longer accurate.''.
    (d) Congressional Notification of Termination of Per Diem 
Required.--Such subsection is further amended by inserting after 
paragraph (2) the following new paragraph (3):
    ``(3) Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary 
terminates provision of per diem payment under this section to a grant 
recipient or an eligible entity, the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives notice of such 
termination if such termination were made because a facility of the 
grant recipient or eligible entity did not comply with--
            ``(A) an applicable provision of the most recently 
        published version of the Life Safety Code of the National Fire 
        Protection Association or such other comparable fire and safety 
        requirement as the Secretary has specified; or
            ``(B) a licensing requirement, fire or safety requirement, 
        or another requirement in the jurisdiction in which the 
        facility is located regarding the condition of the facility.''.
    (e) Treatment of Current Recipients of Per Diem Payments.--
            (1) Assessment.--In the case of the recipient of a per diem 
        payment under section 2012 of title 38, United States Code, 
        that receives such a payment during the year in which this Act 
        is enacted for the provision of housing or services, the 
        Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall assess whether the building 
        where such housing or services are provided is and whether the 
        housing and services are in compliance as required by section 
        2012(c)(1) of such title, as amended by subsection (a)(1).
            (2) Failure to comply.--In the case described in paragraph 
        (1), if the Secretary does not certify the compliance of the 
        building and the housing or services under such section before 
        the date that is two years after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary may not make any additional per diem 
        payments to the recipient for the provision of such housing or 
        services under section 2012 of such title until the Secretary 
        certifies that such building is and such housing or services 
        are in compliance.
    (f) Conforming Condition on Award of Grants by Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs for Comprehensive Service Programs.--Section 
2011(b)(5)(A) is amended by inserting ``, including housing and 
building codes,''.

SEC. 905. EXCEPTION TO CERTAIN RECAPTURE REQUIREMENTS AND TREATMENT OF 
              CONTRACTS AND GRANTS WITH STATE HOMES WITH RESPECT TO 
              CARE FOR HOMELESS VETERANS.

    (a) Exception to Certain Recapture Requirements.--Section 8136(b) 
is amended by inserting ``, or the provision of services or conduct of 
a program pursuant to a contract or grant issued or awarded by the 
Secretary under subchapter II of chapter 20 or section 2031(a)(2) of 
this title,'' after ``outpatient clinic''.
    (b) Construction.--The amendment made by subsection (a) may not be 
construed to authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to enter into 
a contract with a State home or award a grant to a State home for the 
furnishing of residential care for a veteran without--
            (1) identifying a substantial need for such care; and
            (2) determining that the State home is the most appropriate 
        provider of such care.

SEC. 906. EXTENDED PERIOD FOR SCHEDULING OF MEDICAL EXAMS FOR VETERANS 
              RECEIVING TEMPORARY DISABILITY RATINGS FOR SEVERE MENTAL 
              DISORDERS.

    Section 1156(a)(3) is amended by striking ``six months'' and 
inserting ``18 months''.

SEC. 907. AUTHORITY TO ISSUE VETERANS ID CARDS.

    (a) Authority.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may 
        issue a card to a veteran that identifies the veteran as a 
        veteran and includes a photo of the veteran and the name of the 
        veteran.
            (2) No requirement for enrollment or receipt of benefits.--
        The Secretary may issue a card under paragraph (1) to a 
        veteran, whether or not such veteran is--
                    (A) enrolled in the system of annual patient 
                enrollment established under section 1705(a) of title 
                38, United States Code; or
                    (B) in receipt of educational assistance, 
                compensation, or pension under laws administered by the 
                Secretary.
            (3) Designation.--A card issued under paragraph (1) may be 
        known as a ``Veterans ID Card''.
    (b) Recognition of Veterans ID Cards for Reduced Pricing of 
Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Products, and Services.--The Secretary may 
work with national retail chains that offer reduced prices on 
pharmaceuticals, consumer products, and services to veterans to ensure 
that such retail chains recognize cards issued under subsection (a)(1) 
for purposes of offering reduced prices on pharmaceuticals, consumer 
products, and services.
    (c) Veteran Defined.--In this section, the term ``veteran'' has the 
meaning given the term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 908. HONORING AS VETERANS CERTAIN PERSONS WHO PERFORMED SERVICE IN 
              THE RESERVE COMPONENTS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    Any person who is entitled under chapter 1223 of title 10, United 
States Code, to retired pay for nonregular service or, but for age, 
would be entitled under such chapter to retired pay for nonregular 
service shall be honored as a veteran but shall not be entitled to any 
benefit by reason of this honor.

SEC. 909. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO 
              OBTAIN INFORMATION FROM SECRETARY OF TREASURY AND 
              COMMISSIONER OF SOCIAL SECURITY FOR INCOME VERIFICATION 
              PURPOSES.

    Section 5317(g) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2016'' and 
inserting ``September 30, 2018''.

SEC. 910. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO 
              ISSUE AND GUARANTEE CERTAIN LOANS.

    Section 3729(b)(2) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) in clause (iii), by striking ``October 1, 
                2017'' and inserting ``September 30, 2023''; and
                    (B) in clause (iv), by striking ``October 1, 2017'' 
                and inserting ``September 30, 2023'';
            (2) in subparagraph (B)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``October 1, 2017'' 
                and inserting ``September 30, 2023''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``October 1, 2017'' 
                and inserting ``September 30, 2023'';
            (3) in subparagraph (C)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``October 1, 2017'' 
                and inserting ``September 30, 2023''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``October 1, 2017'' 
                and inserting ``September 30, 2023''; and
            (4) in subparagraph (D)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``October 1, 2017'' 
                and inserting ``September 30, 2023''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``October 1, 2017'' 
                and inserting ``September 30, 2023''.

SEC. 911. REVIEW OF DETERMINATION OF CERTAIN SERVICE IN PHILIPPINES 
              DURING WORLD WAR II.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation 
with the Secretary of Defense and such military historians as the 
Secretary of Defense recommends, shall review the process used to 
determine whether a covered individual served in support of the Armed 
Forces of the United States during World War II in accordance with 
section 1002(d) of title X of Division A of the American Recovery and 
Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5; 38 U.S.C. 107 note) for 
purposes of determining whether such covered individual is eligible for 
payments described in such section.
    (b) Covered Individuals.--In this section, a covered individual is 
any individual who timely submitted a claim for benefits under 
subsection (c) of section 1002 of title X of Division A of the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5; 38 U.S.C. 107 
note) based on service as described in subsection (d) of that section.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report detailing 
any findings, actions taken, or recommendations for legislative action 
with respect to the review conducted under subsection (a).
    (d) Prohibition on Benefits for Disqualifying Conduct Under New 
Process Pursuant to Review.--If pursuant to the review conducted under 
subsection (a) the Secretary of Veterans Affairs determines to 
establish a new process for the making of payments as described in that 
subsection, the process shall include mechanisms to ensure that 
individuals are not treated as covered individuals for purposes of such 
payments if such individuals engaged in any disqualifying conduct 
during service described in that subsection, including collaboration 
with the enemy or criminal conduct.

SEC. 912. REVIEW OF DETERMINATION OF CERTAIN SERVICE OF MERCHANT 
              MARINERS DURING WORLD WAR II.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation 
with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security and 
such military historians as the Secretary of Defense recommends, shall 
review the process used to determine whether an individual performed 
service under honorable conditions that satisfies the requirements of a 
coastwise merchant seaman who is recognized pursuant to section 401 of 
the GI Bill Improvement Act of 1977 (Public Law 95-202; 38 U.S.C. 106 
note) as having performed active duty service .
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report detailing 
any findings, actions taken, or recommendations for legislative action 
with respect to the review conducted under subsection (a).

SEC. 913. REPORT ON LAOTIAN MILITARY SUPPORT OF ARMED FORCES OF THE 
              UNITED STATES DURING VIETNAM WAR.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the effective date 
specified in subsection (c), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Defense and such agencies and 
individuals as the Secretary of Veterans Affairs considers appropriate, 
shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on--
            (1) the extent to which Laotian military forces provided 
        combat support to the Armed Forces of the United States between 
        February 28, 1961, and May 15, 1975;
            (2) whether the current classification by the Civilian/
        Military Service Review Board of the Department of Defense of 
        service by individuals of Hmong ethnicity is appropriate; and
            (3) any recommendations for legislative action.
    (b) Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this section, the term 
``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 914. REPORT ON PRACTICES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO 
              ADEQUATELY PROVIDE SERVICES TO VETERANS WITH HEARING 
              LOSS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
actions taken by the Secretary to implement the findings and 
recommendations included in the 2006 report by the Institute of 
Medicine of the National Academies entitled ``Noise and Military 
Service: Implications for Hearing Loss and Tinnitus'' that was prepared 
pursuant to section 104 of the Veterans Benefits Act of 2002 (Public 
Law 107-330; 116 Stat. 2822).
    (b) Effect of Duty Military Occupational Specialty Noise Exposure 
Listing on Receipt of Benefits by Veterans.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall include in the report 
        required by subsection (a) an evaluation of the extent to which 
        veterans who had a military occupational specialty during 
        service as a member of the Armed Forces that is not included on 
        the Duty Military Occupational Specialty Noise Exposure Listing 
        (in this subsection referred to as the ``MOS List'') are 
        precluded from receiving benefits related to hearing loss from 
        the Department of Veterans Affairs.
            (2) Data.--The Secretary shall include in the evaluation 
        required by paragraph (1) the following:
                    (A) With respect to veterans who had a military 
                occupational specialty included on the MOS List--
                            (i) the number of claims for benefits 
                        related to hearing loss from the Department of 
                        Veterans Affairs that were granted; and
                            (ii) the number of claims for benefits 
                        related to hearing loss from the Department 
                        that were denied.
                    (B) With respect to veterans who had a military 
                occupational specialty not included on the MOS List--
                            (i) the number of claims for benefits 
                        related to hearing loss from the Department 
                        that were granted;
                            (ii) the number of claims for benefits 
                        related to hearing loss from the Department 
                        that were denied;
                            (iii) of the number of denied claims under 
                        clause (ii), the number of those claims that 
                        were appealed; and
                            (iv) of the number of appealed claims under 
                        clause (iii), the number of those appealed 
                        claims that were successfully appealed.
    (c) Additional Matters.--The Secretary shall include in the report 
required by subsection (a) the following:
            (1) In the case of a veteran with unilateral hearing loss, 
        an explanation of the scientific basis for the practice of the 
        Department of determining a disability rating level with 
        respect to hearing based on an examination of that veteran's 
        healthy ear instead of the injured ear.
            (2) An analysis of the reduction in earning capacity for 
        veterans as a result of unilateral hearing loss, with a focus 
        on the ability of those veterans--
                    (A) to detect the direction of sound; and
                    (B) to understand speech.
            (3) An explanation of the rationale for the practice of the 
        Department of not issuing a compensable rating for hearing loss 
        at certain levels that are severe enough to require the use of 
        hearing aids.
            (4) A survey of the audiologists that conduct compensation 
        and pension examinations for the Department to assess the 
        implementation of the most recent edition of the best practices 
        manual for hearing loss and tinnitus examinations that includes 
        the following:
                    (A) A description of the training received by those 
                audiologists compared to the methods described in the 
                most recent edition of the best practices manual for 
                hearing loss and tinnitus examinations.
                    (B) An assessment of how those audiologists have 
                complied with that training.
                    (C) Whether those audiologists are using a range of 
                tones up to 8000 hertz to test the hearing of veterans.
    (d) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
authorize or require the Secretary to defer, delay, or replace the 
ongoing efforts of the Secretary to update the schedule of ratings 
required by section 1155 of title 38, United States Code.
    (e) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 915. REPORT ON JOINT PROGRAMS OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
              AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WITH RESPECT TO HEARING LOSS OF 
              MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Defense, submit to Congress a report 
that identifies the following:
            (1) Goals for the Department of Veterans Affairs and the 
        Department of Defense for the prevention, early detection, and 
        treatment of hearing loss by the National Center for 
        Rehabilitative Auditory Research of the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs and the Hearing Center of Excellence of the Department 
        of Defense.
            (2) Resources of the Department of Veterans Affairs that 
        could be made available to assist the Department of Defense in 
        conducting audiometric tests and tinnitus screenings for 
        members of the Armed Forces.
            (3) Barriers to information being added to the Hearing Loss 
        and Auditory System Injury Registry required under section 
        721(c)(1) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4506).
            (4) Recommendations for any legislative or administrative 
        actions necessary with respect to the Hearing Loss and Auditory 
        System Injury Registry--
                    (A) to assist in achieving the goals specified in 
                paragraph (1);
                    (B) to improve the adjudication of claims for 
                benefits with respect to hearing loss; and
                    (C) to further the research objectives of the 
                National Center for Rehabilitative Auditory Research of 
                the Department of Veterans Affairs and the Hearing 
                Center of Excellence of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 916. LIMITATION ON AGGREGATE AMOUNT OF BONUSES PAYABLE TO 
              PERSONNEL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS DURING 
              FISCAL YEAR 2014.

    The aggregate amount of bonuses and awards payable to personnel of 
the Department of Veterans Affairs under chapter 45 or 53 of title 5, 
United States Code, or any other provision of such title, during fiscal 
year 2014 may not exceed $368,000,000.

SEC. 917. AMENDMENT TO OCO ADJUSTMENTS.

    Section 251 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph (2) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(2) Eliminating a breach.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Each non-exempt account within a 
                category shall be reduced by a dollar amount calculated 
                by multiplying the enacted level of sequestrable 
                budgetary resources in that account at that time by the 
                uniform percentage necessary to eliminate a breach 
                within that category.
                    ``(B) Overseas contingencies.--Any amount of budget 
                authority designated as for Overseas Contingency 
                Operations/Global War on Terrorism for any of fiscal 
                years 2018 through 2021 in excess of the levels set in 
                subsection (b)(2)(E) shall be counted in determining 
                whether a breach has occurred in the revised security 
                category during the fiscal year.''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by inserting ``for 
                fiscal years 2012 through 2017,'' before ``the 
                Congress''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(E) Overseas contingency operations/global war on 
                terrorism.--If, for fiscal years 2018 through 2021, 
                appropriations for discretionary accounts are enacted 
                that Congress designates for Overseas Contingency 
                Operations/Global War on Terrorism in statute on an 
                account by account basis and the President subsequently 
                so designates, the adjustment for the fiscal year shall 
                be the total of such appropriations for the fiscal year 
                in discretionary accounts designated as being for 
                Overseas Contingency Operations/Global War on 
                Terrorism, but not to exceed--
                            ``(i) for fiscal year 2018, $94,010,000,000 
                        in additional new budget authority;
                            ``(ii) for fiscal year 2019, 
                        $96,077,000,000 in additional new budget 
                        authority;
                            ``(iii) for fiscal year 2020, 
                        $98,253,000,000 in additional new budget 
                        authority; and
                            ``(iv) for fiscal year 2021, 
                        $100,437,000,000 in additional new budget 
                        authority.''.
                                 <all>
