
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. 1681 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.1681

                     One Hundred Thirteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and fourteen


                                 An Act


 
 To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2014 for intelligence and 
intelligence-related activities of the United States Government and the 
      Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the Central 
  Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, and for other 
                                purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Intelligence 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.

                    TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Classified Schedule of Authorizations.
Sec. 103. Personnel ceiling adjustments.
Sec. 104. Intelligence Community Management Account.

 TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 202. CIARDS and FERS special retirement credit for service on 
          detail to another agency.

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                       Subtitle A--General Matters

Sec. 301. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by 
          law.
Sec. 302. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 303. Specific authorization of funding for High Performance 
          Computing Center 2.
Sec. 304. Clarification of exemption from Freedom of Information Act of 
          identities of employees submitting complaints to the Inspector 
          General of the Intelligence Community.
Sec. 305. Functional managers for the intelligence community.
Sec. 306. Annual assessment of intelligence community performance by 
          function.
Sec. 307. Software licensing.
Sec. 308. Plans to respond to unauthorized public disclosures of covert 
          actions.
Sec. 309. Auditability.
Sec. 310. Reports of fraud, waste, and abuse.
Sec. 311. Public Interest Declassification Board.
Sec. 312. Official representation items in support of the Coast Guard 
          Attache Program.
Sec. 313. Declassification review of certain items collected during the 
          mission that killed Osama bin Laden on May 1, 2011.
Sec. 314. Merger of the Foreign Counterintelligence Program and the 
          General Defense Intelligence Program.

                          Subtitle B--Reporting

Sec. 321. Significant interpretations of law concerning intelligence 
          activities.
Sec. 322. Review for official publication of opinions of the Office of 
          Legal Counsel of the Department of Justice concerning 
          intelligence activities.
Sec. 323. Submittal to Congress by heads of elements of intelligence 
          community of plans for orderly shutdown in event of absence of 
          appropriations.
Sec. 324. Reports on chemical weapons in Syria.
Sec. 325. Reports to the intelligence community on penetrations of 
          networks and information systems of certain contractors.
Sec. 326. Report on electronic waste.
Sec. 327. Promoting STEM education to meet the future workforce needs of 
          the intelligence community.
Sec. 328. Repeal of the termination of notification requirements 
          regarding the authorized disclosure of national intelligence.
Sec. 329. Repeal or modification of certain reporting requirements.

  TITLE IV--MATTERS RELATING TO ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY

                  Subtitle A--National Security Agency

Sec. 401. Appointment of the Director of the National Security Agency.
Sec. 402. Appointment of the Inspector General of the National Security 
          Agency.
Sec. 403. Effective date and applicability.

               Subtitle B--National Reconnaissance Office

Sec. 411. Appointment of the Director of the National Reconnaissance 
          Office.
Sec. 412. Appointment of the Inspector General of the National 
          Reconnaissance Office.
Sec. 413. Effective date and applicability.

                 Subtitle C--Central Intelligence Agency

Sec. 421. Gifts, devises, and bequests.

                   TITLE V--SECURITY CLEARANCE REFORM

Sec. 501. Continuous evaluation and sharing of derogatory information 
          regarding personnel with access to classified information.
Sec. 502. Requirements for intelligence community contractors.
Sec. 503. Technology improvements to security clearance processing.
Sec. 504. Report on reciprocity of security clearances.
Sec. 505. Improving the periodic reinvestigation process.
Sec. 506. Appropriate committees of Congress defined.

       TITLE VI--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS

Sec. 601. Protection of intelligence community whistleblowers.
Sec. 602. Review of security clearance or access determinations.
Sec. 603. Revisions of other laws.
Sec. 604. Policies and procedures; nonapplicability to certain 
          terminations.

                     TITLE VII--TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS

Sec. 701. Technical amendments to the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 
          1949.
Sec. 702. Technical amendments to the National Security Act of 1947 
          relating to the past elimination of certain positions.
Sec. 703. Technical amendments to the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
          Fiscal Year 2013.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
    In this Act:
        (1) Congressional intelligence committees.--The term 
    ``congressional intelligence committees'' means--
            (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives.
        (2) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
    community'' has the meaning given that term in section 3(4) of the 
    National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).

                    TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

    SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2014 
for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related activities 
of the following elements of the United States Government:
        (1) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
        (2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
        (3) The Department of Defense.
        (4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
        (5) The National Security Agency.
        (6) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and 
    the Department of the Air Force.
        (7) The Coast Guard.
        (8) The Department of State.
        (9) The Department of the Treasury.
        (10) The Department of Energy.
        (11) The Department of Justice.
        (12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        (13) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
        (14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
        (15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
        (16) The Department of Homeland Security.
    SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS.
    (a) Specifications of Amounts and Personnel Levels.--The amounts 
authorized to be appropriated under section 101 and, subject to section 
103, the authorized personnel ceilings as of September 30, 2014, for 
the conduct of the intelligence activities of the elements listed in 
paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 101, are those specified in the 
classified Schedule of Authorizations prepared to accompany the bill S. 
1681 of the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress.
    (b) Availability of Classified Schedule of Authorizations.--
        (1) Availability.--The classified Schedule of Authorizations 
    referred to in subsection (a) shall be made available to the 
    Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on 
    Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and to the 
    President.
        (2) Distribution by the president.--Subject to paragraph (3), 
    the President shall provide for suitable distribution of the 
    classified Schedule of Authorizations, or of appropriate portions 
    of the Schedule, within the executive branch.
        (3) Limits on disclosure.--The President shall not publicly 
    disclose the classified Schedule of Authorizations or any portion 
    of such Schedule except--
            (A) as provided in section 601(a) of the Implementing 
        Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 
        3306(a));
            (B) to the extent necessary to implement the budget; or
            (C) as otherwise required by law.
    SEC. 103. PERSONNEL CEILING ADJUSTMENTS.
    (a) Authority for Increases.--The Director of National Intelligence 
may authorize employment of civilian personnel in excess of the number 
authorized for fiscal year 2014 by the classified Schedule of 
Authorizations referred to in section 102(a) if the Director of 
National Intelligence determines that such action is necessary to the 
performance of important intelligence functions, except that the number 
of personnel employed in excess of the number authorized under such 
section may not, for any element of the intelligence community, exceed 
3 percent of the number of civilian personnel authorized under such 
Schedule for such element.
    (b) Treatment of Certain Personnel.--The Director of National 
Intelligence shall establish guidelines that govern, for each element 
of the intelligence community, the treatment under the personnel levels 
authorized under section 102(a), including any exemption from such 
personnel levels, of employment or assignment in--
        (1) a student program, trainee program, or similar program;
        (2) a reserve corps or as a reemployed annuitant; or
        (3) details, joint duty, or long term, full-time training.
    (c) Notice to Congressional Intelligence Committees.--The Director 
of National Intelligence shall notify the congressional intelligence 
committees in writing at least 15 days prior to each exercise of an 
authority described in subsection (a).
    SEC. 104. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account of the 
Director of National Intelligence for fiscal year 2014 the sum of 
$528,229,000. Within such amount, funds identified in the classified 
Schedule of Authorizations referred to in section 102(a) for advanced 
research and development shall remain available until September 30, 
2015.
    (b) Authorized Personnel Levels.--The elements within the 
Intelligence Community Management Account of the Director of National 
Intelligence are authorized 855 positions as of September 30, 2014. 
Personnel serving in such elements may be permanent employees of the 
Office of the Director of National Intelligence or personnel detailed 
from other elements of the United States Government.
    (c) Classified Authorizations.--
        (1) Authorization of appropriations.--In addition to amounts 
    authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community 
    Management Account by subsection (a), there are authorized to be 
    appropriated for the Community Management Account for fiscal year 
    2014 such additional amounts as are specified in the classified 
    Schedule of Authorizations referred to in section 102(a). Such 
    additional amounts for advanced research and development shall 
    remain available until September 30, 2015.
        (2) Authorization of personnel.--In addition to the personnel 
    authorized by subsection (b) for elements of the Intelligence 
    Community Management Account as of September 30, 2014, there are 
    authorized such additional personnel for the Community Management 
    Account as of that date as are specified in the classified Schedule 
    of Authorizations referred to in section 102(a).

 TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

    SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability Fund for fiscal year 2014 the sum of 
$514,000,000.
    SEC. 202. CIARDS AND FERS SPECIAL RETIREMENT CREDIT FOR SERVICE ON 
      DETAIL TO ANOTHER AGENCY.
    (a) In General.--Section 203(b) of the Central Intelligence Agency 
Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2013(b)) is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
    ``service in the Agency performed'' and inserting ``service 
    performed by an Agency employee''; and
        (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Agency activities'' and 
    inserting ``intelligence activities''.
    (b) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall be 
applied to retired or deceased officers of the Central Intelligence 
Agency who were designated at any time under section 203 of the Central 
Intelligence Agency Retirement Act (50 U.S.C. 2013) prior to the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS
                      Subtitle A--General Matters

    SEC. 301. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED 
      BY LAW.
    Appropriations authorized by this Act for salary, pay, retirement, 
and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased by such 
additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for increases in 
such compensation or benefits authorized by law.
    SEC. 302. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
    The authorization of appropriations by this Act shall not be deemed 
to constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence activity 
which is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or the laws of 
the United States.
    SEC. 303. SPECIFIC AUTHORIZATION OF FUNDING FOR HIGH PERFORMANCE 
      COMPUTING CENTER 2.
    Funds appropriated for the construction of the High Performance 
Computing Center 2 (HPCC 2), as described in the table entitled 
Consolidated Cryptologic Program (CCP) in the classified annex to 
accompany the Consolidated and Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 
2013 (Public Law 113-6; 127 Stat. 198), in excess of the amount 
specified for such activity in the tables in the classified annex 
prepared to accompany the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (Public Law 112-277; 126 Stat. 2468) shall be specifically 
authorized by Congress for the purposes of section 504 of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3094).
    SEC. 304. CLARIFICATION OF EXEMPTION FROM FREEDOM OF INFORMATION 
      ACT OF IDENTITIES OF EMPLOYEES SUBMITTING COMPLAINTS TO THE 
      INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
    Section 103H(g)(3)(A) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3033(g)(3)(A)) is amended by striking ``undertaken;'' and 
inserting ``undertaken, and this provision shall qualify as a 
withholding statute pursuant to subsection (b)(3) of section 552 of 
title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the `Freedom of 
Information Act');''.
    SEC. 305. FUNCTIONAL MANAGERS FOR THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
    (a) Functional Managers Authorized.--Title I of the National 
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3021 et seq.) is amended by inserting 
after section 103I the following new section:
``SEC. 103J. FUNCTIONAL MANAGERS FOR THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
    ``(a) Functional Managers Authorized.--The Director of National 
Intelligence may establish within the intelligence community one or 
more positions of manager of an intelligence function. Any position so 
established may be known as the `Functional Manager' of the 
intelligence function concerned.
    ``(b) Personnel.--The Director shall designate individuals to serve 
as manager of intelligence functions established under subsection (a) 
from among officers and employees of elements of the intelligence 
community.
    ``(c) Duties.--Each manager of an intelligence function established 
under subsection (a) shall have the duties as follows:
        ``(1) To act as principal advisor to the Director on the 
    intelligence function.
        ``(2) To carry out such other responsibilities with respect to 
    the intelligence function as the Director may specify for purposes 
    of this section.''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 103I the following new 
item:

``Sec. 103J. Functional managers for the intelligence community.''.
    SEC. 306. ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY PERFORMANCE 
      BY FUNCTION.
    (a) Annual Assessments Required.--Title V of the National Security 
Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
section 506I the following new section:
``SEC. 506J. ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY PERFORMANCE BY 
FUNCTION.
    ``(a) In General.--Not later than April 1, 2016, and each year 
thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall, in 
consultation with the Functional Managers, submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees a report on covered intelligence functions 
during the preceding year.
    ``(b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include for 
each covered intelligence function for the year covered by such report 
the following:
        ``(1) An identification of the capabilities, programs, and 
    activities of such intelligence function, regardless of the element 
    of the intelligence community that carried out such capabilities, 
    programs, and activities.
        ``(2) A description of the investment and allocation of 
    resources for such intelligence function, including an analysis of 
    the allocation of resources within the context of the National 
    Intelligence Strategy, priorities for recipients of resources, and 
    areas of risk.
        ``(3) A description and assessment of the performance of such 
    intelligence function.
        ``(4) An identification of any issues related to the 
    application of technical interoperability standards in the 
    capabilities, programs, and activities of such intelligence 
    function.
        ``(5) An identification of the operational overlap or need for 
    de-confliction, if any, within such intelligence function.
        ``(6) A description of any efforts to integrate such 
    intelligence function with other intelligence disciplines as part 
    of an integrated intelligence enterprise.
        ``(7) A description of any efforts to establish consistency in 
    tradecraft and training within such intelligence function.
        ``(8) A description and assessment of developments in 
    technology that bear on the future of such intelligence function.
        ``(9) Such other matters relating to such intelligence function 
    as the Director may specify for purposes of this section.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `covered intelligence functions' means each 
    intelligence function for which a Functional Manager has been 
    established under section 103J during the year covered by a report 
    under this section.
        ``(2) The term `Functional Manager' means the manager of an 
    intelligence function established under section 103J.''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 506I the following new 
item:

``Sec. 506J. Annual assessment of intelligence community performance by 
          function.''.
    SEC. 307. SOFTWARE LICENSING.
    (a) In General.--Title I of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3021 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 108 the 
following new section:
    ``SEC. 109. SOFTWARE LICENSING.
    ``(a) Requirement for Inventories of Software Licenses.--The chief 
information officer of each element of the intelligence community, in 
consultation with the Chief Information Officer of the Intelligence 
Community, shall biennially--
        ``(1) conduct an inventory of all existing software licenses of 
    such element, including utilized and unutilized licenses;
        ``(2) assess the actions that could be carried out by such 
    element to achieve the greatest possible economies of scale and 
    associated cost savings in software procurement and usage; and
        ``(3) submit to the Chief Information Officer of the 
    Intelligence Community each inventory required by paragraph (1) and 
    each assessment required by paragraph (2).
    ``(b) Inventories by the Chief Information Officer of the 
Intelligence Community.--The Chief Information Officer of the 
Intelligence Community, based on the inventories and assessments 
required by subsection (a), shall biennially--
        ``(1) compile an inventory of all existing software licenses of 
    the intelligence community, including utilized and unutilized 
    licenses; and
        ``(2) assess the actions that could be carried out by the 
    intelligence community to achieve the greatest possible economies 
    of scale and associated cost savings in software procurement and 
    usage.
    ``(c) Reports to Congress.--The Chief Information Officer of the 
Intelligence Community shall submit to the congressional intelligence 
committees a copy of each inventory compiled under subsection 
(b)(1).''.
    (b) Initial Inventory.--
        (1) Intelligence community elements.--
            (A) Date.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the chief information officer of each 
        element of the intelligence community shall complete the 
        initial inventory, assessment, and submission required under 
        section 109(a) of the National Security Act of 1947, as added 
        by subsection (a) of this section.
            (B) Basis.--The initial inventory conducted for each 
        element of the intelligence community under section 109(a)(1) 
        of the National Security Act of 1947, as added by subsection 
        (a) of this section, shall be based on the inventory of 
        software licenses conducted pursuant to section 305 of the 
        Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 
        112-277; 126 Stat. 2472) for such element.
        (2) Chief information officer of the intelligence community.--
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
    Act, the Chief Information Officer of the Intelligence Community 
    shall complete the initial compilation and assessment required 
    under section 109(b) of the National Security Act of 1947, as added 
    by subsection (a).
    (c) Table of Contents Amendments.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended--
        (1) by striking the second item relating to section 104 
    (relating to Annual national security strategy report); and
        (2) inserting after the item relating to section 108 the 
    following new item:

``Sec. 109. Software licensing.''.
    SEC. 308. PLANS TO RESPOND TO UNAUTHORIZED PUBLIC DISCLOSURES OF 
      COVERT ACTIONS.
    Section 503 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3093) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) For each type of activity undertaken as part of a covert 
action, the President shall establish in writing a plan to respond to 
the unauthorized public disclosure of that type of activity.''.
    SEC. 309. AUDITABILITY.
    (a) In General.--Title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:
    ``SEC. 509. AUDITABILITY OF CERTAIN ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE 
      COMMUNITY.
    ``(a) Requirement for Annual Audits.--The head of each covered 
entity shall ensure that there is a full financial audit of such 
covered entity each year beginning with fiscal year 2014. Such audits 
may be conducted by an internal or external independent accounting or 
auditing organization.
    ``(b) Requirement for Unqualified Opinion.--Beginning as early as 
practicable, but in no event later than the audit required under 
subsection (a) for fiscal year 2016, the head of each covered entity 
shall take all reasonable steps necessary to ensure that each audit 
required under subsection (a) contains an unqualified opinion on the 
financial statements of such covered entity for the fiscal year covered 
by such audit.
    ``(c) Reports to Congress.--The chief financial officer of each 
covered entity shall provide to the congressional intelligence 
committees an annual audit report from an accounting or auditing 
organization on each audit of the covered entity conducted pursuant to 
subsection (a).
    ``(d) Covered Entity Defined.--In this section, the term `covered 
entity' means the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, the 
Central Intelligence Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the 
National Security Agency, the National Reconnaissance Office, and the 
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 508 the following new 
item:

``Sec. 509. Auditability of certain elements of the intelligence 
          community.''.
    SEC. 310. REPORTS OF FRAUD, WASTE, AND ABUSE.
    Section 8H(a) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) 
is amended in paragraph (1)--
        (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as subparagraphs 
    (C) and (D), respectively;
        (2) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following:
    ``(B) An employee of an element of the intelligence community, an 
employee assigned or detailed to an element of the intelligence 
community, or an employee of a contractor to the intelligence 
community, who intends to report to Congress a complaint or information 
with respect to an urgent concern may report such complaint or 
information to the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community.''; 
and
        (3) in subparagraph (D), as redesignated by paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``Act or section 17'' and inserting ``Act, 
        section 17''; and
            (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``, or 
        section 103H(k) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
        3033(k)).''.
    SEC. 311. PUBLIC INTEREST DECLASSIFICATION BOARD.
    Section 710(b) of the Public Interest Declassification Act of 2000 
(Public Law 106-567; 50 U.S.C. 3161 note) is amended by striking 
``2014.'' and inserting ``2018.''.
    SEC. 312. OFFICIAL REPRESENTATION ITEMS IN SUPPORT OF THE COAST 
      GUARD ATTACHE PROGRAM.
    Notwithstanding any other limitation on the amount of funds that 
may be used for official representation items, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security may use funds made available to the Secretary through 
the National Intelligence Program for necessary expenses for 
intelligence analysis and operations coordination activities for 
official representation items in support of the Coast Guard Attache 
Program.
    SEC. 313. DECLASSIFICATION REVIEW OF CERTAIN ITEMS COLLECTED DURING 
      THE MISSION THAT KILLED OSAMA BIN LADEN ON MAY 1, 2011.
    Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall--
        (1) in the manner described in the classified annex to this 
    Act--
            (A) complete a declassification review of documents 
        collected in Abbottabad, Pakistan, during the mission that 
        killed Osama bin Laden on May 1, 2011; and
            (B) make publicly available any information declassified as 
        a result of the declassification review required under 
        paragraph (1); and
        (2) report to the congressional intelligence committees--
            (A) the results of the declassification review required 
        under paragraph (1); and
            (B) a justification for not declassifying any information 
        required to be included in such declassification review that 
        remains classified.
    SEC. 314. MERGER OF THE FOREIGN COUNTERINTELLIGENCE PROGRAM AND THE 
      GENERAL DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM.
    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Director of 
National Intelligence shall carry out the merger of the Foreign 
Counterintelligence Program into the General Defense Intelligence 
Program as directed in the classified annex to this Act. The merger 
shall go into effect no earlier than 30 days after written notification 
of the merger is provided to the congressional intelligence committees.

                         Subtitle B--Reporting

    SEC. 321. SIGNIFICANT INTERPRETATIONS OF LAW CONCERNING 
      INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
    (a) In General.--Title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3021 et seq.), as added by section 309 of this Act, is further 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
    ``SEC. 510. SIGNIFICANT INTERPRETATIONS OF LAW CONCERNING 
      INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
    ``(a) Notification.--Except as provided in subsection (c) and to 
the extent consistent with due regard for the protection from 
unauthorized disclosure of classified information relating to sensitive 
intelligence sources and methods or other exceptionally sensitive 
matters, the General Counsel of each element of the intelligence 
community shall notify the congressional intelligence committees, in 
writing, of any significant legal interpretation of the United States 
Constitution or Federal law affecting intelligence activities conducted 
by such element by not later than 30 days after the date of the 
commencement of any intelligence activity pursuant to such 
interpretation.
    ``(b) Content.--Each notification under subsection (a) shall 
provide a summary of the significant legal interpretation and the 
intelligence activity or activities conducted pursuant to such 
interpretation.
    ``(c) Exceptions.--A notification under subsection (a) shall not be 
required for a significant legal interpretation if--
        ``(1) notice of the significant legal interpretation was 
    previously provided to the congressional intelligence committees 
    under subsection (a); or
        ``(2) the significant legal interpretation was made before the 
    date of the enactment of the Intelligence Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2014.
    ``(d) Limited Access for Covert Action.--If the President 
determines that it is essential to limit access to a covert action 
finding under section 503(c)(2), the President may limit access to 
information concerning such finding that is subject to notification 
under this section to those members of Congress who have been granted 
access to the relevant finding under section 503(c)(2).''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 509, as so added, the 
following new item:

``Sec. 510. Significant interpretations of law concerning intelligence 
          activities.''.
    SEC. 322. REVIEW FOR OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF OPINIONS OF THE OFFICE 
      OF LEGAL COUNSEL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE CONCERNING 
      INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
    (a) Process for Review for Official Publication.--Not later than 
180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney 
General shall, in coordination with the Director of National 
Intelligence, establish a process for the regular review for official 
publication of significant opinions of the Office of Legal Counsel of 
the Department of Justice that have been provided to an element of the 
intelligence community.
    (b) Factors.--The process of review of opinions established under 
subsection (a) shall include consideration of the following:
        (1) The potential importance of an opinion to other agencies or 
    officials in the Executive branch.
        (2) The likelihood that similar questions addressed in an 
    opinion may arise in the future.
        (3) The historical importance of an opinion or the context in 
    which it arose.
        (4) The potential significance of an opinion to the overall 
    jurisprudence of the Office of Legal Counsel.
        (5) Such other factors as the Attorney General and the Director 
    of National Intelligence consider appropriate.
    (c) Presumption.--The process of review established under 
subsection (a) shall apply a presumption that significant opinions of 
the Office of Legal Counsel should be published when practicable, 
consistent with national security and other confidentiality 
considerations.
    (d) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall require the 
official publication of any opinion of the Office of Legal Counsel, 
including publication under any circumstance as follows:
        (1) When publication would reveal classified or other sensitive 
    information relating to national security.
        (2) When publication could reasonably be anticipated to 
    interfere with Federal law enforcement efforts or is prohibited by 
    law.
        (3) When publication would conflict with preserving internal 
    Executive branch deliberative processes or protecting other 
    information properly subject to privilege.
    (e) Requirement To Provide Classified Opinions to Congress.--
        (1) In general.--Any opinion of the Office of Legal Counsel 
    that would have been selected for publication under the process of 
    review established under subsection (a) but for the fact that 
    publication would reveal classified or other sensitive information 
    relating to national security shall be provided or made available 
    to the appropriate committees of Congress.
        (2) Exception for covert action.--If the President determines 
    that it is essential to limit access to a covert action finding 
    under section 503(c)(2) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
    U.S.C. 3093(c)(2)), the President may limit access to information 
    concerning such finding that would otherwise be provided or made 
    available under this subsection to those members of Congress who 
    have been granted access to such finding under such section 
    503(c)(2).
    (f) Judicial Review.--The determination whether an opinion of the 
Office of Legal Counsel is appropriate for official publication under 
the process of review established under subsection (a) is discretionary 
and is not subject to judicial review.
    SEC. 323. SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS BY HEADS OF ELEMENTS OF 
      INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY OF PLANS FOR ORDERLY SHUTDOWN IN EVENT OF 
      ABSENCE OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    (a) In General.--Whenever the head of an applicable agency submits 
a plan to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget in 
accordance with section 124 of Office of Management and Budget Circular 
A-11, pertaining to agency operations in the absence of appropriations, 
or any successor circular of the Office that requires the head of an 
applicable agency to submit to the Director a plan for an orderly 
shutdown in the event of the absence of appropriations, such head shall 
submit a copy of such plan to the following:
        (1) The congressional intelligence committees.
        (2) The Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
    Appropriations of the Senate.
        (3) The Subcommittee on Defense of the Committee on 
    Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
        (4) In the case of a plan for an element of the intelligence 
    community that is within the Department of Defense, to--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (b) Head of an Applicable Agency Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``head of an applicable agency'' includes the following:
        (1) The Director of National Intelligence.
        (2) The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency.
        (3) Each head of each element of the intelligence community 
    that is within the Department of Defense.
    SEC. 324. REPORTS ON CHEMICAL WEAPONS IN SYRIA.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to Congress a report on the Syrian chemical weapons program.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
        (1) A comprehensive assessment of chemical weapon stockpiles in 
    Syria, including names, types, and quantities of chemical weapons 
    agents, types of munitions, and location and form of storage, 
    production, and research and development facilities.
        (2) A listing of key personnel associated with the Syrian 
    chemical weapons program.
        (3) An assessment of undeclared chemical weapons stockpiles, 
    munitions, and facilities.
        (4) An assessment of how these stockpiles, precursors, and 
    delivery systems were obtained.
        (5) A description of key intelligence gaps related to the 
    Syrian chemical weapons program.
        (6) An assessment of any denial and deception efforts on the 
    part of the Syrian regime related to its chemical weapons program.
    (c) Progress Reports.--Every 90 days until the date that is 18 
months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of 
National Intelligence shall submit to Congress a progress report 
providing any material updates to the report required under subsection 
(a).
    SEC. 325. REPORTS TO THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY ON PENETRATIONS OF 
      NETWORKS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS OF CERTAIN CONTRACTORS.
    (a) Procedures for Reporting Penetrations.--The Director of 
National Intelligence shall establish procedures that require each 
cleared intelligence contractor to report to an element of the 
intelligence community designated by the Director for purposes of such 
procedures when a network or information system of such contractor that 
meets the criteria established pursuant to subsection (b) is 
successfully penetrated.
    (b) Networks and Information Systems Subject to Reporting.--The 
Director of National Intelligence shall, in consultation with 
appropriate officials, establish criteria for covered networks to be 
subject to the procedures for reporting system penetrations under 
subsection (a).
    (c) Procedure Requirements.--
        (1) Rapid reporting.--The procedures established pursuant to 
    subsection (a) shall require each cleared intelligence contractor 
    to rapidly report to an element of the intelligence community 
    designated pursuant to subsection (a) of each successful 
    penetration of the network or information systems of such 
    contractor that meet the criteria established pursuant to 
    subsection (b). Each such report shall include the following:
            (A) A description of the technique or method used in such 
        penetration.
            (B) A sample of the malicious software, if discovered and 
        isolated by the contractor, involved in such penetration.
            (C) A summary of information created by or for such element 
        in connection with any program of such element that has been 
        potentially compromised due to such penetration.
        (2) Access to equipment and information by intelligence 
    community personnel.--The procedures established pursuant to 
    subsection (a) shall--
            (A) include mechanisms for intelligence community personnel 
        to, upon request, obtain access to equipment or information of 
        a cleared intelligence contractor necessary to conduct forensic 
        analysis in addition to any analysis conducted by such 
        contractor;
            (B) provide that a cleared intelligence contractor is only 
        required to provide access to equipment or information as 
        described in subparagraph (A) to determine whether information 
        created by or for an element of the intelligence community in 
        connection with any intelligence community program was 
        successfully exfiltrated from a network or information system 
        of such contractor and, if so, what information was 
        exfiltrated; and
            (C) provide for the reasonable protection of trade secrets, 
        commercial or financial information, and information that can 
        be used to identify a specific person (other than the name of 
        the suspected perpetrator of the penetration).
        (3) Limitation on dissemination of certain information.--The 
    procedures established pursuant to subsection (a) shall prohibit 
    the dissemination outside the intelligence community of information 
    obtained or derived through such procedures that is not created by 
    or for the intelligence community except--
            (A) with the approval of the contractor providing such 
        information;
            (B) to the congressional intelligence committees or the 
        Subcommittees on Defense of the Committees on Appropriations of 
        the House of Representatives and the Senate for such committees 
        and such Subcommittees to perform oversight; or
            (C) to law enforcement agencies to investigate a 
        penetration reported under this section.
    (d) Issuance of Procedures and Establishment of Criteria.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
    establish the procedures required under subsection (a) and the 
    criteria required under subsection (b).
        (2) Applicability date.--The requirements of this section shall 
    apply on the date on which the Director of National Intelligence 
    establishes the procedures required under this section.
    (e) Coordination With the Secretary of Defense To Prevent Duplicate 
Reporting.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Director of National Intelligence and the Secretary of 
Defense shall establish procedures to permit a contractor that is a 
cleared intelligence contractor and a cleared defense contractor under 
section 941 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2013 (Public Law 112-239; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) to submit a single 
report that satisfies the requirements of this section and such section 
941 for an incident of penetration of network or information system.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Cleared intelligence contractor.--The term ``cleared 
    intelligence contractor'' means a private entity granted clearance 
    by the Director of National Intelligence or the head of an element 
    of the intelligence community to access, receive, or store 
    classified information for the purpose of bidding for a contract or 
    conducting activities in support of any program of an element of 
    the intelligence community.
        (2) Covered network.--The term ``covered network'' means a 
    network or information system of a cleared intelligence contractor 
    that contains or processes information created by or for an element 
    of the intelligence community with respect to which such contractor 
    is required to apply enhanced protection.
    (g) Savings Clauses.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
alter or limit any otherwise authorized access by government personnel 
to networks or information systems owned or operated by a contractor 
that processes or stores government data.
    SEC. 326. REPORT ON ELECTRONIC WASTE.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a report on the extent to which 
the intelligence community has implemented the recommendations of the 
Inspector General of the Intelligence Community contained in the report 
entitled ``Study of Intelligence Community Electronic Waste Disposal 
Practices'' issued in May 2013. Such report shall include an assessment 
of the extent to which the policies, standards, and guidelines of the 
intelligence community governing the proper disposal of electronic 
waste are applicable to covered commercial electronic waste that may 
contain classified information.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Covered commercial electronic waste.--The term ``covered 
    commercial electronic waste'' means electronic waste of a 
    commercial entity that contracts with an element of the 
    intelligence community.
        (2) Electronic waste.--The term ``electronic waste'' includes 
    any obsolete, broken, or irreparable electronic device, including a 
    television, copier, facsimile machine, tablet, telephone, computer, 
    computer monitor, laptop, printer, scanner, and associated 
    electrical wiring.
    SEC. 327. PROMOTING STEM EDUCATION TO MEET THE FUTURE WORKFORCE 
      NEEDS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the Secretary of Education and the congressional intelligence 
committees a report describing the anticipated hiring needs of the 
intelligence community in the fields of science, technology, 
engineering, and mathematics, including cybersecurity and computer 
literacy. The report shall--
        (1) describe the extent to which competitions, challenges, or 
    internships at elements of the intelligence community that do not 
    involve access to classified information may be utilized to promote 
    education in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and 
    mathematics, including cybersecurity and computer literacy, within 
    high schools or institutions of higher education in the United 
    States;
        (2) include cost estimates for carrying out such competitions, 
    challenges, or internships; and
        (3) include strategies for conducting expedited security 
    clearance investigations and adjudications for students at 
    institutions of higher education for purposes of offering 
    internships at elements of the intelligence community.
    (b) Consideration of Existing Programs.--In developing the report 
under subsection (a), the Director shall take into consideration 
existing programs of the intelligence community, including the 
education programs of the National Security Agency and the Information 
Assurance Scholarship Program of the Department of Defense, as 
appropriate.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) High school.--The term ``high school'' mean a school that 
    awards a secondary school diploma.
        (2) Institution of higher education.--The term ``institution of 
    higher education'' has the meaning given the term in section 101(a) 
    of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)).
        (3) Secondary school.--The term ``secondary school'' has the 
    meaning given the term in section 9101 of the Elementary and 
    Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
    SEC. 328. REPEAL OF THE TERMINATION OF NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS 
      REGARDING THE AUTHORIZED DISCLOSURE OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE.
    Section 504 of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2013 (Public Law 112-277; 126 Stat. 2477) is amended by striking 
subsection (e).
    SEC. 329. REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Repeal of Reporting Requirements.--
        (1) Threat of attack on the united states using weapons of mass 
    destruction.--Section 114 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
    U.S.C. 3050) is amended by striking subsection (b).
        (2) Treaty on conventional armed forces in europe.--Section 
    2(5)(E) of the Senate resolution advising and consenting to 
    ratification of the Document Agreed Among the States Parties to the 
    Treaty on Conventional Armed Forces in Europe (CFE) of November 19, 
    1990, adopted at Vienna May 31, 1996 (Treaty Doc. 105-5) (commonly 
    referred to as the ``CFE Flank Document''), 105th Congress, agreed 
    to May 14, 1997, is repealed.
    (b) Modification of Reporting Requirements.--
        (1) Intelligence advisory committees.--Section 410(b) of the 
    Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (50 U.S.C. 
    3309) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Notification of Establishment of Advisory Committee.--The 
Director of National Intelligence and the Director of the Central 
Intelligence Agency shall each notify the congressional intelligence 
committees each time each such Director creates an advisory committee. 
Each notification shall include--
        ``(1) a description of such advisory committee, including the 
    subject matter of such committee;
        ``(2) a list of members of such advisory committee; and
        ``(3) in the case of an advisory committee created by the 
    Director of National Intelligence, the reasons for a determination 
    by the Director under section 4(b)(3) of the Federal Advisory 
    Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) that an advisory committee cannot 
    comply with the requirements of such Act.''.
        (2) Intelligence information sharing.--Section 102A(g)(4) of 
    the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3024(g)(4)) is amended 
    to read as follows:
    ``(4) The Director of National Intelligence shall, in a timely 
manner, report to Congress any statute, regulation, policy, or practice 
that the Director believes impedes the ability of the Director to fully 
and effectively ensure maximum availability of access to intelligence 
information within the intelligence community consistent with the 
protection of the national security of the United States.''.
        (3) Intelligence community business system transformation.--
    Section 506D(j) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
    3100(j)) is amended in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by 
    striking ``2015'' and inserting ``2014''.
        (4) Activities of privacy and civil liberties officers.--
    Section 1062(f)(1) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism 
    Prevention Act of 2004 (42 U.S.C. 2000ee-1(f)(1)) is amended in the 
    matter preceding subparagraph (A) by striking ``quarterly'' and 
    inserting ``semiannually''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--The National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3001 et seq.) is amended--
        (1) in the table of contents in the first section, by striking 
    the item relating to section 114 and inserting the following new 
    item:

``Sec. 114. Annual report on hiring and retention of minority 
          employees.'';

        (2) in section 114 (50 U.S.C. 3050)--
            (A) by amending the heading to read as follows: ``annual 
        report on hiring and retention of minority employees'';
            (B) by striking ``(a) Annual Report on Hiring and Retention 
        of Minority Employees.--'';
            (C) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (5) as 
        subsections (a) through (e), respectively;
            (D) in subsection (b) (as so redesignated)--
                (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (C) as 
            paragraphs (1) through (3), respectively; and
                (ii) in paragraph (2) (as so redesignated)--

                    (I) by redesignating clauses (i) and (ii) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively; and
                    (II) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) (as 
                so redesignated), by striking ``clauses (i) and (ii)'' 
                and inserting ``subparagraphs (A) and (B)'';

            (E) in subsection (d) (as redesignated by subparagraph (C) 
        of this paragraph), by striking ``subsection'' and inserting 
        ``section''; and
            (F) in subsection (e) (as redesignated by subparagraph (C) 
        of this paragraph)--
                (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (C) as 
            paragraphs (1) through (3), respectively; and
                (ii) by striking ``subsection,'' and inserting 
            ``section''; and
        (3) in section 507 (50 U.S.C. 3106)--
            (A) in subsection (a)--
                (i) by striking ``(1) The date'' and inserting ``The 
            date'';
                (ii) by striking ``subsection (c)(1)(A)'' and inserting 
            ``subsection (c)(1)'';
                (iii) by striking paragraph (2); and
                (iv) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (F) as 
            paragraphs (1) through (6), respectively;
            (B) in subsection (c)(1)--
                (i) by striking ``(A) Except'' and inserting 
            ``Except''; and
                (ii) by striking subparagraph (B); and
            (C) in subsection (d)(1)--
                (i) in subparagraph (A)--

                    (I) by striking ``subsection (a)(1)'' and inserting 
                ``subsection (a)''; and
                    (II) by inserting ``and'' after ``March 1;'';

                (ii) by striking subparagraph (B); and
                (iii) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph 
            (B).

  TITLE IV--MATTERS RELATING TO ELEMENTS OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY
                  Subtitle A--National Security Agency

    SEC. 401. APPOINTMENT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY 
      AGENCY.
    (a) Director of the National Security Agency.--Section 2 of the 
National Security Agency Act of 1959 (50 U.S.C. 3602) is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(b)'' before ``There''; and
        (2) by inserting before subsection (b), as so designated by 
    paragraph (1), the following:
    ``(a)(1) There is a Director of the National Security Agency.
    ``(2) The Director of the National Security Agency shall be 
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the 
Senate.
    ``(3) The Director of the National Security Agency shall be the 
head of the National Security Agency and shall discharge such functions 
and duties as are provided by this Act or otherwise by law or executive 
order.''.
    (b) Position of Importance and Responsibility.--
        (1) In general.--The President may designate the Director of 
    the National Security Agency as a position of importance and 
    responsibility under section 601 of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) Effective date.--Paragraph (1) shall take effect on the 
    date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 402. APPOINTMENT OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE NATIONAL 
      SECURITY AGENCY.
    The Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended--
        (1) in section 8G(a)(2), by striking ``the National Security 
    Agency,''; and
        (2) in section 12--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or the Federal 
        Cochairpersons of the Commissions established under section 
        15301 of title 40, United States Code;'' and inserting ``the 
        Federal Cochairpersons of the Commissions established under 
        section 15301 of title 40, United States Code; the Director of 
        the National Security Agency;''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or the Commissions 
        established under section 15301 of title 40, United States 
        Code,'' and inserting ``the Commissions established under 
        section 15301 of title 40, United States Code, the National 
        Security Agency,''.
    SEC. 403. EFFECTIVE DATE AND APPLICABILITY.
    (a) In General.--Except as otherwise specifically provided, the 
amendments made by sections 401 and 402 shall take effect on October 1, 
2014, and shall apply upon the earlier of--
        (1) in the case of section 401--
            (A) the date of the first nomination by the President of an 
        individual to serve as the Director of the National Security 
        Agency that occurs on or after October 1, 2014; or
            (B) the date of the cessation of the performance of the 
        duties of the Director of the National Security Agency by the 
        individual performing such duties on October 1, 2014; and
        (2) in the case of section 402--
            (A) the date of the first nomination by the President of an 
        individual to serve as the Inspector General of the National 
        Security Agency that occurs on or after October 1, 2014; or
            (B) the date of the cessation of the performance of the 
        duties of the Inspector General of the National Security Agency 
        by the individual performing such duties on October 1, 2014.
    (b) Exception for Initial Nominations.--Notwithstanding paragraph 
(1)(A) or (2)(A) of subsection (a), an individual serving as the 
Director of the National Security Agency or the Inspector General of 
the National Security Agency on the date that the President first 
nominates an individual for such position on or after October 1, 2014, 
may continue to perform in that position after such date of nomination 
and until the individual appointed to the position, by and with the 
advice and consent of the Senate, assumes the duties of the position.
    (c) Incumbent Inspector General.--The individual serving as 
Inspector General of the National Security Agency on the date of the 
enactment of this Act shall be eligible to be appointed by the 
President to a new term of service under section 3 of the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), by and with the advice and consent 
of the Senate.

               Subtitle B--National Reconnaissance Office

    SEC. 411. APPOINTMENT OF THE DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL 
      RECONNAISSANCE OFFICE.
    (a) In General.--The National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 
et seq.) is amended by adding after section 106 the following:
``SEC. 106A. DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE OFFICE.
    ``(a) In General.--There is a Director of the National 
Reconnaissance Office.
    ``(b) Appointment.--The Director of the National Reconnaissance 
Office shall be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and 
consent of the Senate.
    ``(c) Functions and Duties.--The Director of the National 
Reconnaissance Office shall be the head of the National Reconnaissance 
Office and shall discharge such functions and duties as are provided by 
this Act or otherwise by law or executive order.''.
    (b) Position of Importance and Responsibility.--
        (1) In general.--The President may designate the Director of 
    the National Reconnaissance Office as a position of importance and 
    responsibility under section 601 of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) Effective date.--Paragraph (1) shall take effect on the 
    date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et 
seq.) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 106 
the following:

``Sec. 106A. Director of the National Reconnaissance Office.''.
    SEC. 412. APPOINTMENT OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL OF THE NATIONAL 
      RECONNAISSANCE OFFICE.
    The Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.)--
        (1) in section 8G(a)(2), as amended by section 402, is further 
    amended by striking ``the National Reconnaissance Office,''; and
        (2) in section 12, as amended by section 402, is further 
    amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or the Director of the 
        National Reconnaissance Office;'' before ``as the case may 
        be;''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or the National 
        Reconnaissance Office,'' before ``as the case may be;''.
    SEC. 413. EFFECTIVE DATE AND APPLICABILITY.
    (a) In General.--The amendments made by sections 411 and 412 shall 
take effect on October 1, 2014, and shall apply upon the earlier of--
        (1) in the case of section 411--
            (A) the date of the first nomination by the President of an 
        individual to serve as the Director of the National 
        Reconnaissance Office that occurs on or after October 1, 2014; 
        or
            (B) the date of the cessation of the performance of the 
        duties of the Director of the National Reconnaissance Office by 
        the individual performing such duties on October 1, 2014; and
        (2) in the case of section 412--
            (A) the date of the first nomination by the President of an 
        individual to serve as the Inspector General of the National 
        Reconnaissance Office that occurs on or after October 1, 2014; 
        or
            (B) the date of the cessation of the performance of the 
        duties of the Inspector General of the National Reconnaissance 
        Office by the individual performing such duties on October 1, 
        2014.
    (b) Exception for Initial Nominations.--Notwithstanding paragraph 
(1)(A) or (2)(A) of subsection (a), an individual serving as the 
Director of the National Reconnaissance Office or the Inspector General 
of the National Reconnaissance Office on the date that the President 
first nominates an individual for such position on or after October 1, 
2014, may continue to perform in that position after such date of 
nomination and until the individual appointed to the position, by and 
with the advice and consent of the Senate, assumes the duties of the 
position.
    (c) Incumbent Inspector General.--The individual serving as 
Inspector General of the National Reconnaissance Office on the date of 
the enactment of this Act shall be eligible to be appointed by the 
President to a new term of service under section 3 of the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), by and with the advice and consent 
of the Senate.

                Subtitle C--Central Intelligence Agency

    SEC. 421. GIFTS, DEVISES, AND BEQUESTS.
    Section 12 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 
U.S.C. 3512) is amended--
        (1) by striking the section heading and inserting ``gifts, 
    devises, and bequests'';
        (2) in subsection (a)(2)--
            (A) by inserting ``by the Director as a gift to the 
        Agency'' after ``accepted''; and
            (B) by striking ``this section'' and inserting ``this 
        subsection'';
        (3) in subsection (b), by striking ``this section,'' and 
    inserting ``subsection (a),'';
        (4) in subsection (c), by striking ``this section,'' and 
    inserting ``subsection (a),'';
        (5) in subsection (d), by striking ``this section'' and 
    inserting ``subsection (a)'';
        (6) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g); and
        (7) by inserting after subsection (e) the following:
    ``(f)(1) The Director may engage in fundraising in an official 
capacity for the benefit of nonprofit organizations that provide 
support to surviving family members of deceased Agency employees or 
that otherwise provide support for the welfare, education, or 
recreation of Agency employees, former Agency employees, or their 
family members.
    ``(2) In this subsection, the term `fundraising' means the raising 
of funds through the active participation in the promotion, production, 
or presentation of an event designed to raise funds and does not 
include the direct solicitation of money by any other means.''.

                   TITLE V--SECURITY CLEARANCE REFORM

    SEC. 501. CONTINUOUS EVALUATION AND SHARING OF DEROGATORY 
      INFORMATION REGARDING PERSONNEL WITH ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED 
      INFORMATION.
    Section 102A(j) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3024(j)) is amended--
        (1) in the heading, by striking ``Sensitive Compartmented 
    Information'' and inserting ``Classified Information'';
        (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (3) in paragraph (4), by striking the period and inserting a 
    semicolon; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(5) ensure that the background of each employee or officer of 
    an element of the intelligence community, each contractor to an 
    element of the intelligence community, and each individual employee 
    of such a contractor who has been determined to be eligible for 
    access to classified information is monitored on a continual basis 
    under standards developed by the Director, including with respect 
    to the frequency of evaluation, during the period of eligibility of 
    such employee or officer of an element of the intelligence 
    community, such contractor, or such individual employee to such a 
    contractor to determine whether such employee or officer of an 
    element of the intelligence community, such contractor, and such 
    individual employee of such a contractor continues to meet the 
    requirements for eligibility for access to classified information; 
    and
        ``(6) develop procedures to require information sharing between 
    elements of the intelligence community concerning potentially 
    derogatory security information regarding an employee or officer of 
    an element of the intelligence community, a contractor to an 
    element of the intelligence community, or an individual employee of 
    such a contractor that may impact the eligibility of such employee 
    or officer of an element of the intelligence community, such 
    contractor, or such individual employee of such a contractor for a 
    security clearance.''.
    SEC. 502. REQUIREMENTS FOR INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY CONTRACTORS.
    (a) Requirements.--Section 102A of the National Security Act of 
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3024) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(x) Requirements for Intelligence Community Contractors.--The 
Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the head of 
each department of the Federal Government that contains an element of 
the intelligence community and the Director of the Central Intelligence 
Agency, shall--
        ``(1) ensure that--
            ``(A) any contractor to an element of the intelligence 
        community with access to a classified network or classified 
        information develops and operates a security plan that is 
        consistent with standards established by the Director of 
        National Intelligence for intelligence community networks; and
            ``(B) each contract awarded by an element of the 
        intelligence community includes provisions requiring the 
        contractor comply with such plan and such standards;
        ``(2) conduct periodic assessments of each security plan 
    required under paragraph (1)(A) to ensure such security plan 
    complies with the requirements of such paragraph; and
        ``(3) ensure that the insider threat detection capabilities and 
    insider threat policies of the intelligence community apply to 
    facilities of contractors with access to a classified network.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to contracts entered into or renewed after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 503. TECHNOLOGY IMPROVEMENTS TO SECURITY CLEARANCE PROCESSING.
    (a) In General.--The Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Director of the 
Office of Personnel Management, shall conduct an analysis of the 
relative costs and benefits of potential improvements to the process 
for investigating persons who are proposed for access to classified 
information and adjudicating whether such persons satisfy the criteria 
for obtaining and retaining access to such information.
    (b) Contents of Analysis.--In conducting the analysis required by 
subsection (a), the Director of National Intelligence shall evaluate 
the costs and benefits associated with--
        (1) the elimination of manual processes in security clearance 
    investigations and adjudications, if possible, and automating and 
    integrating the elements of the investigation process, including--
            (A) the clearance application process;
            (B) case management;
            (C) adjudication management;
            (D) investigation methods for the collection, analysis, 
        storage, retrieval, and transfer of data and records; and
            (E) records management for access and eligibility 
        determinations;
        (2) the elimination or reduction, if possible, of the use of 
    databases and information sources that cannot be accessed and 
    processed automatically electronically, or modification of such 
    databases and information sources, to enable electronic access and 
    processing;
        (3) the use of government-developed and commercial technology 
    for continuous monitoring and evaluation of government and 
    commercial data sources that can identify and flag information 
    pertinent to adjudication guidelines and eligibility 
    determinations;
        (4) the standardization of forms used for routine reporting 
    required of cleared personnel (such as travel, foreign contacts, 
    and financial disclosures) and use of continuous monitoring 
    technology to access databases containing such reportable 
    information to independently obtain and analyze reportable data and 
    events;
        (5) the establishment of an authoritative central repository of 
    personnel security information that is accessible electronically at 
    multiple levels of classification and eliminates technical barriers 
    to rapid access to information necessary for eligibility 
    determinations and reciprocal recognition thereof;
        (6) using digitally processed fingerprints, as a substitute for 
    ink or paper prints, to reduce error rates and improve portability 
    of data;
        (7) expanding the use of technology to improve an applicant's 
    ability to discover the status of a pending security clearance 
    application or reinvestigation; and
        (8) using government and publicly available commercial data 
    sources, including social media, that provide independent 
    information pertinent to adjudication guidelines to improve quality 
    and timeliness, and reduce costs, of investigations and 
    reinvestigations.
    (c) Report to Congress.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
analysis required by subsection (a).
    SEC. 504. REPORT ON RECIPROCITY OF SECURITY CLEARANCES.
    The head of the entity selected pursuant to section 3001(b) of the 
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 
3341(b)) shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
report each year through 2017 that describes for the preceding year--
        (1) the periods of time required by authorized adjudicative 
    agencies for accepting background investigations and determinations 
    completed by an authorized investigative entity or authorized 
    adjudicative agency;
        (2) the total number of cases in which a background 
    investigation or determination completed by an authorized 
    investigative entity or authorized adjudicative agency is accepted 
    by another agency;
        (3) the total number of cases in which a background 
    investigation or determination completed by an authorized 
    investigative entity or authorized adjudicative agency is not 
    accepted by another agency; and
        (4) such other information or recommendations as the head of 
    the entity selected pursuant to such section 3001(b) considers 
    appropriate.
    SEC. 505. IMPROVING THE PERIODIC REINVESTIGATION PROCESS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until December 31, 2017, 
the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense and the Director of the Office of Personnel 
Management, shall transmit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
strategic plan for updating the process for periodic reinvestigations 
consistent with a continuous evaluation program.
    (b) Contents.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall include--
        (1) an analysis of the costs and benefits associated with 
    conducting periodic reinvestigations;
        (2) an analysis of the costs and benefits associated with 
    replacing some or all periodic reinvestigations with a program of 
    continuous evaluation;
        (3) a determination of how many risk-based and ad hoc periodic 
    reinvestigations are necessary on an annual basis for each 
    component of the Federal Government with employees with security 
    clearances;
        (4) an analysis of the potential benefits of expanding the 
    Government's use of continuous evaluation tools as a means of 
    improving the effectiveness and efficiency of procedures for 
    confirming the eligibility of personnel for continued access to 
    classified information; and
        (5) an analysis of how many personnel with out-of-scope 
    background investigations are employed by, or contracted or 
    detailed to, each element of the intelligence community.
    (c) Periodic Reinvestigations Defined.--In this section, the term 
``periodic reinvestigations'' has the meaning given that term in 
section 3001(a) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act 
of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(a)).
    SEC. 506. APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS DEFINED.
    In this title, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
means--
        (1) the congressional intelligence committees;
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
        (3) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Homeland Security of the House of Representatives.

       TITLE VI--INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTIONS

    SEC. 601. PROTECTION OF INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY WHISTLEBLOWERS.
    (a) In General.--Title XI of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3231 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:
``SEC. 1104. PROHIBITED PERSONNEL PRACTICES IN THE INTELLIGENCE 
COMMUNITY.
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Agency.--The term `agency' means an executive department 
    or independent establishment, as defined under sections 101 and 104 
    of title 5, United States Code, that contains an intelligence 
    community element, except the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        ``(2) Covered intelligence community element.--The term 
    `covered intelligence community element'--
            ``(A) means--
                ``(i) the Central Intelligence Agency, the Defense 
            Intelligence Agency, the National Geospatial-Intelligence 
            Agency, the National Security Agency, the Office of the 
            Director of National Intelligence, and the National 
            Reconnaissance Office; and
                ``(ii) any executive agency or unit thereof determined 
            by the President under section 2302(a)(2)(C)(ii) of title 
            5, United States Code, to have as its principal function 
            the conduct of foreign intelligence or counterintelligence 
            activities; and
            ``(B) does not include the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        ``(3) Personnel action.--The term `personnel action' means, 
    with respect to an employee in a position in a covered intelligence 
    community element (other than a position excepted from the 
    competitive service due to its confidential, policy-determining, 
    policymaking, or policy-advocating character)--
            ``(A) an appointment;
            ``(B) a promotion;
            ``(C) a disciplinary or corrective action;
            ``(D) a detail, transfer, or reassignment;
            ``(E) a demotion, suspension, or termination;
            ``(F) a reinstatement or restoration;
            ``(G) a performance evaluation;
            ``(H) a decision concerning pay, benefits, or awards;
            ``(I) a decision concerning education or training if such 
        education or training may reasonably be expected to lead to an 
        appointment, promotion, or performance evaluation; or
            ``(J) any other significant change in duties, 
        responsibilities, or working conditions.
    ``(b) In General.--Any employee of an agency who has authority to 
take, direct others to take, recommend, or approve any personnel 
action, shall not, with respect to such authority, take or fail to take 
a personnel action with respect to any employee of a covered 
intelligence community element as a reprisal for a lawful disclosure of 
information by the employee to the Director of National Intelligence 
(or an employee designated by the Director of National Intelligence for 
such purpose), the Inspector General of the Intelligence Community, the 
head of the employing agency (or an employee designated by the head of 
that agency for such purpose), the appropriate inspector general of the 
employing agency, a congressional intelligence committee, or a member 
of a congressional intelligence committee, which the employee 
reasonably believes evidences--
        ``(1) a violation of any Federal law, rule, or regulation; or
        ``(2) mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of 
    authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or 
    safety.
    ``(c) Enforcement.--The President shall provide for the enforcement 
of this section.
    ``(d) Existing Rights Preserved.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to--
        ``(1) preempt or preclude any employee, or applicant for 
    employment, at the Federal Bureau of Investigation from exercising 
    rights provided under any other law, rule, or regulation, including 
    section 2303 of title 5, United States Code; or
        ``(2) repeal section 2303 of title 5, United States Code.''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by adding 
at the end the following new item:

``Sec. 1104. Prohibited personnel practices in the intelligence 
          community.''.
    SEC. 602. REVIEW OF SECURITY CLEARANCE OR ACCESS DETERMINATIONS.
    (a) General Responsibility.--
        (1) In general.--Section 3001(b) of the Intelligence Reform and 
    Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(b)) is amended--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``Not'' and inserting ``Except as otherwise provided, not'';
            (B) in paragraph (5), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (C) in paragraph (6), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (D) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
        ``(7) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
    of the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014--
            ``(A) developing policies and procedures that permit, to 
        the extent practicable, individuals to appeal a determination 
        to suspend or revoke a security clearance or access to 
        classified information and to retain their government 
        employment status while such challenge is pending; and
            ``(B) developing and implementing uniform and consistent 
        policies and procedures to ensure proper protections during the 
        process for denying, suspending, or revoking a security 
        clearance or access to classified information, including the 
        ability to appeal such a denial, suspension, or revocation, 
        except that there shall be no appeal of an agency's suspension 
        of a security clearance or access determination for purposes of 
        conducting an investigation, if that suspension lasts no longer 
        than 1 year or the head of the agency or a designee of the head 
        of the agency certifies that a longer suspension is needed 
        before a final decision on denial or revocation to prevent 
        imminent harm to the national security.''.
        (2) Required elements of policies and procedures.--The policies 
    and procedures for appeal developed under paragraph (7) of section 
    3001(b) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 
    2004, as added by subsection (a), shall provide for the Inspector 
    General of the Intelligence Community, or the inspector general of 
    the employing agency, to conduct fact-finding and report to the 
    agency head or the designee of the agency head within 180 days 
    unless the employee and the agency agree to an extension or the 
    investigating inspector general determines in writing that a 
    greater period of time is required. To the fullest extent possible, 
    such fact-finding shall include an opportunity for the employee to 
    present relevant evidence such as witness testimony.
    (b) Retaliatory Revocation of Security Clearances and Access 
Determinations.--Section 3001 of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism 
Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(j) Retaliatory Revocation of Security Clearances and Access 
Determinations.--
        ``(1) In general.--Agency personnel with authority over 
    personnel security clearance or access determinations shall not 
    take or fail to take, or threaten to take or fail to take, any 
    action with respect to any employee's security clearance or access 
    determination in retaliation for--
            ``(A) any lawful disclosure of information to the Director 
        of National Intelligence (or an employee designated by the 
        Director of National Intelligence for such purpose) or the head 
        of the employing agency (or employee designated by the head of 
        that agency for such purpose) by an employee that the employee 
        reasonably believes evidences--
                ``(i) a violation of any Federal law, rule, or 
            regulation; or
                ``(ii) gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an 
            abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to 
            public health or safety;
            ``(B) any lawful disclosure to the Inspector General of an 
        agency or another employee designated by the head of the agency 
        to receive such disclosures, of information which the employee 
        reasonably believes evidences--
                ``(i) a violation of any Federal law, rule, or 
            regulation; or
                ``(ii) gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an 
            abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to 
            public health or safety;
            ``(C) any lawful disclosure that complies with--
                ``(i) subsections (a)(1), (d), and (h) of section 8H of 
            the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.);
                ``(ii) subparagraphs (A), (D), and (H) of section 
            17(d)(5) of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 
            U.S.C. 3517(d)(5)); or
                ``(iii) subparagraphs (A), (D), and (I) of section 
            103H(k)(5) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
            3033(k)(5)); and
            ``(D) if the actions do not result in the employee or 
        applicant unlawfully disclosing information specifically 
        required by Executive order to be kept classified in the 
        interest of national defense or the conduct of foreign affairs, 
        any lawful disclosure in conjunction with--
                ``(i) the exercise of any appeal, complaint, or 
            grievance right granted by any law, rule, or regulation;
                ``(ii) testimony for or otherwise lawfully assisting 
            any individual in the exercise of any right referred to in 
            clause (i); or
                ``(iii) cooperation with or disclosing information to 
            the Inspector General of an agency, in accordance with 
            applicable provisions of law in connection with an audit, 
            inspection, or investigation conducted by the Inspector 
            General.
        ``(2) Rule of construction.--Consistent with the protection of 
    sources and methods, nothing in paragraph (1) shall be construed to 
    authorize the withholding of information from Congress or the 
    taking of any personnel action against an employee who lawfully 
    discloses information to Congress.
        ``(3) Disclosures.--
            ``(A) In general.--A disclosure shall not be excluded from 
        paragraph (1) because--
                ``(i) the disclosure was made to a person, including a 
            supervisor, who participated in an activity that the 
            employee reasonably believed to be covered by paragraph 
            (1)(A)(ii);
                ``(ii) the disclosure revealed information that had 
            been previously disclosed;
                ``(iii) the disclosure was not made in writing;
                ``(iv) the disclosure was made while the employee was 
            off duty; or
                ``(v) of the amount of time which has passed since the 
            occurrence of the events described in the disclosure.
            ``(B) Reprisals.--If a disclosure is made during the normal 
        course of duties of an employee, the disclosure shall not be 
        excluded from paragraph (1) if any employee who has authority 
        to take, direct others to take, recommend, or approve any 
        personnel action with respect to the employee making the 
        disclosure, took, failed to take, or threatened to take or fail 
        to take a personnel action with respect to that employee in 
        reprisal for the disclosure.
        ``(4) Agency adjudication.--
            ``(A) Remedial procedure.--An employee or former employee 
        who believes that he or she has been subjected to a reprisal 
        prohibited by paragraph (1) may, within 90 days after the 
        issuance of notice of such decision, appeal that decision 
        within the agency of that employee or former employee through 
        proceedings authorized by subsection (b)(7), except that there 
        shall be no appeal of an agency's suspension of a security 
        clearance or access determination for purposes of conducting an 
        investigation, if that suspension lasts not longer than 1 year 
        (or a longer period in accordance with a certification made 
        under subsection (b)(7)).
            ``(B) Corrective action.--If, in the course of proceedings 
        authorized under subparagraph (A), it is determined that the 
        adverse security clearance or access determination violated 
        paragraph (1), the agency shall take specific corrective action 
        to return the employee or former employee, as nearly as 
        practicable and reasonable, to the position such employee or 
        former employee would have held had the violation not occurred. 
        Such corrective action may include back pay and related 
        benefits, travel expenses, and compensatory damages not to 
        exceed $300,000.
            ``(C) Contributing factor.--In determining whether the 
        adverse security clearance or access determination violated 
        paragraph (1), the agency shall find that paragraph (1) was 
        violated if a disclosure described in paragraph (1) was a 
        contributing factor in the adverse security clearance or access 
        determination taken against the individual, unless the agency 
        demonstrates by a preponderance of the evidence that it would 
        have taken the same action in the absence of such disclosure, 
        giving the utmost deference to the agency's assessment of the 
        particular threat to the national security interests of the 
        United States in the instant matter.
        ``(5) Appellate review of security clearance access 
    determinations by director of national intelligence.--
            ``(A) Appeal.--Within 60 days after receiving notice of an 
        adverse final agency determination under a proceeding under 
        paragraph (4), an employee or former employee may appeal that 
        determination in accordance with the procedures established 
        under subparagraph (B).
            ``(B) Policies and procedures.--The Director of National 
        Intelligence, in consultation with the Attorney General and the 
        Secretary of Defense, shall develop and implement policies and 
        procedures for adjudicating the appeals authorized by 
        subparagraph (A).
            ``(C) Congressional notification.--Consistent with the 
        protection of sources and methods, at the time the Director of 
        National Intelligence issues an order regarding an appeal 
        pursuant to the policies and procedures established by this 
        paragraph, the Director of National Intelligence shall notify 
        the congressional intelligence committees.
        ``(6) Judicial review.--Nothing in this section shall be 
    construed to permit or require judicial review of any--
            ``(A) agency action under this section; or
            ``(B) action of the appellate review procedures established 
        under paragraph (5).
        ``(7) Private cause of action.--Nothing in this section shall 
    be construed to permit, authorize, or require a private cause of 
    action to challenge the merits of a security clearance 
    determination.''.
    (c) Access Determination Defined.--Section 3001(a) of the 
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 
3341(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
        ``(9) Access determination.--The term `access determination' 
    means the determination regarding whether an employee--
            ``(A) is eligible for access to classified information in 
        accordance with Executive Order 12968 (60 Fed. Reg. 40245; 
        relating to access to classified information), or any successor 
        thereto, and Executive Order 10865 (25 Fed. Reg. 1583; relating 
        to safeguarding classified information with industry), or any 
        successor thereto; and
            ``(B) possesses a need to know under such an Order.''.
    (d) Existing Rights Preserved.--Nothing in this section or the 
amendments made by this section shall be construed to preempt, 
preclude, or otherwise prevent an individual from exercising rights, 
remedies, or avenues of redress currently provided under any other law, 
regulation, or rule.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in section 3001 of the 
Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 
3341), as amended by this title, shall be construed to require the 
repeal or replacement of agency appeal procedures implementing 
Executive Order 12968 (60 Fed. Reg. 40245; relating to access to 
classified information), or any successor thereto, and Executive Order 
10865 (25 Fed. Reg. 1583; relating to safeguarding classified 
information with industry), or any successor thereto, that meet the 
requirements of paragraph (7) of section 3001(b) of such Act, as added 
by this section.
    SEC. 603. REVISIONS OF OTHER LAWS.
    (a) Inspector General Act of 1978.--Section 8H of the Inspector 
General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(b)''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(2) If the head of an establishment determines that a complaint 
or information transmitted under paragraph (1) would create a conflict 
of interest for the head of the establishment, the head of the 
establishment shall return the complaint or information to the 
Inspector General with that determination and the Inspector General 
shall make the transmission to the Director of National Intelligence 
and, if the establishment is within the Department of Defense, to the 
Secretary of Defense. In such a case, the requirements of this section 
for the head of the establishment apply to each recipient of the 
Inspector General's transmission.'';
        (2) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (i); and
        (3) by inserting after subsection (g) the following:
    ``(h) An individual who has submitted a complaint or information to 
an Inspector General under this section may notify any member of the 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
Representatives or the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, 
or a staff member of either such Committee, of the fact that such 
individual has made a submission to that particular Inspector General, 
and of the date on which such submission was made.''.
    (b) Central Intelligence Agency.--Section 17(d)(5) of the Central 
Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 U.S.C. 3517(d)(5)) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B)--
            (A) by inserting ``(i)'' after ``(B)''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(ii) If the Director determines that a complaint or information 
transmitted under paragraph (1) would create a conflict of interest for 
the Director, the Director shall return the complaint or information to 
the Inspector General with that determination and the Inspector General 
shall make the transmission to the Director of National Intelligence. 
In such a case, the requirements of this subsection for the Director of 
the Central Intelligence Agency apply to the Director of National 
Intelligence''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(H) An individual who has submitted a complaint or information to 
the Inspector General under this section may notify any member of the 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
Representatives or the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate, 
or a staff member of either such Committee, of the fact that such 
individual has made a submission to the Inspector General, and of the 
date on which such submission was made.''.
    (c) National Security Act of 1947.--Section 103H(k)(5) of the 
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3033(k)(5)) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(I) An individual who has submitted a complaint or information to 
the Inspector General under this section may notify any member of 
either of the congressional intelligence committees, or a staff member 
of either of such committees, of the fact that such individual has made 
a submission to the Inspector General, and of the date on which such 
submission was made.''.
    SEC. 604. POLICIES AND PROCEDURES; NONAPPLICABILITY TO CERTAIN 
      TERMINATIONS.
    (a) Covered Intelligence Community Element Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``covered intelligence community element''--
        (1) means--
            (A) the Central Intelligence Agency, the Defense 
        Intelligence Agency, the National Geospatial-Intelligence 
        Agency, the National Security Agency, the Office of the 
        Director of National Intelligence, and the National 
        Reconnaissance Office; and
            (B) any executive agency or unit thereof determined by the 
        President under section 2302(a)(2)(C)(ii) of title 5, United 
        States Code, to have as its principal function the conduct of 
        foreign intelligence or counterintelligence activities; and
        (2) does not include the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
    (b) Regulations.--In consultation with the Secretary of Defense, 
the Director of National Intelligence shall develop policies and 
procedures to ensure that a personnel action shall not be taken against 
an employee of a covered intelligence community element as a reprisal 
for any disclosure of information described in 1104 of the National 
Security Act of 1947, as added by section 601 of this Act.
    (c) Report on the Status of Implementation of Regulations.--Not 
later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Director of National Intelligence shall submit a report on the status 
of the implementation of the regulations promulgated under subsection 
(b) to the congressional intelligence committees.
    (d) Nonapplicability to Certain Terminations.--Section 1104 of the 
National Security Act of 1947, as added by section 601 of this Act, and 
section 3001 of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act of 
2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341), as amended by section 602 of this Act, shall not 
apply if--
        (1) the affected employee is concurrently terminated under--
            (A) section 1609 of title 10, United States Code;
            (B) the authority of the Director of National Intelligence 
        under section 102A(m) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
        U.S.C. 3024(m)), if the Director determines that the 
        termination is in the interest of the United States;
            (C) the authority of the Director of the Central 
        Intelligence Agency under section 104A(e) of the National 
        Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3036(e)), if the Director 
        determines that the termination is in the interest of the 
        United States; or
            (D) section 7532 of title 5, United States Code, if the 
        head of the agency determines that the termination is in the 
        interest of the United States; and
        (2) not later than 30 days after such termination, the head of 
    the agency that employed the affected employee notifies the 
    congressional intelligence committees of the termination.

                    TITLE VII--TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS

    SEC. 701. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY 
      ACT OF 1949.
    Section 21 of the Central Intelligence Agency Act of 1949 (50 
U.S.C. 3521) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(1)(D), by striking ``section (a)'' and 
    inserting ``subsection (a)''; and
        (2) in subsection (c)(2)(E), by striking ``provider.'' and 
    inserting ``provider''.
    SEC. 702. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE NATIONAL SECURITY ACT OF 1947 
      RELATING TO THE PAST ELIMINATION OF CERTAIN POSITIONS.
    Section 101(a) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3021(a)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (5), by striking the semicolon and inserting 
    ``; and'';
        (2) by striking paragraphs (6) and (7);
        (3) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (6); and
        (4) in paragraph (6) (as so redesignated), by striking ``the 
    Chairman of the Munitions Board, and the Chairman of the Research 
    and Development Board,''.
    SEC. 703. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS TO THE INTELLIGENCE AUTHORIZATION 
      ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2013.
    (a) Amendments.--Section 506 of the Intelligence Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-277; 126 Stat. 2478) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Section 606(5)'' and inserting ``Paragraph 
    (5) of section 605''; and
        (2) by inserting ``, as redesignated by section 310(a)(4)(B) of 
    this Act,'' before ``is amended''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect as if included in the enactment of the Intelligence 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-277).

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
