
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[S. Con. Res. 22 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.Con.Res.22
                                        Agreed to August 2, 2013        

                     One Hundred Thirteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Thursday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and thirteen


                          Concurrent Resolution

    Resolved by the Senate (the House of Representatives concurring), 
That when the Senate recesses or adjourns on any day from Thursday, 
August 1, 2013, through Sunday, August 11, 2013, on a motion offered 
pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his 
designee, it stand recessed or adjourned until 12:00 noon on Monday, 
August 12, 2013, or such other time on that day as may be specified by 
its Majority Leader or his designee in the motion to recess or adjourn; 
and that when the Senate recesses or adjourns on Monday, August 12, 
2013, it stand adjourned until 12:00 noon on Monday, September 9, 2013, 
or such other time on that day as may be specified by its Majority 
Leader or his designee, or until the time of any reassembly pursuant to 
section 2 of this concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first; and 
that when the House adjourns on any legislative day from Friday, August 
2, 2013, through Friday, September 6, 2013, on a motion offered 
pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his 
designee, it stand adjourned until 2:00 p.m. on Monday, September 9, 
2013, or until the time of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this 
concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 2.  The Majority Leader of the Senate and the Speaker of the 
House, or their respective designees, acting jointly after consultation 
with the Minority Leader of the Senate and the Minority Leader of the 
House, shall notify the Members of the Senate and House, respectively, 
to reassemble at such place and time as they may designate if, in their 
opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
Attest:

                                               Secretary of the Senate.
Attest:

                                 Clerk of the House of Representatives.
