
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 316 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.316

                     One Hundred Thirteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and fourteen


                                 An Act


 
To reinstate and transfer certain hydroelectric licenses and extend the 
   deadline for commencement of construction of certain hydroelectric 
                                projects.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Collinsville Renewable Energy 
Production Act''.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
    In this Act:
        (1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
    Energy Regulatory Commission.
        (2) License.--The term ``license'' means--
            (A) the license for Commission project number 10822;
            (B) the license for Commission project number 10823; or
            (C) both.
        (3) Town.--The term ``Town'' means the town of Canton, 
    Connecticut.
SEC. 3. REINSTATEMENT, EXTENSION, AND TRANSFER OF EXPIRED LICENSES.
    Notwithstanding the termination of the license, the Commission may, 
at the request of the Town, in accordance with section 4(a), and after 
reasonable notice--
        (1) reinstate the licence;
        (2) extend for 2 years after the date on which the license is 
    reinstated the time period during which the licensee is required to 
    commence the construction of the project subject to the license; 
    and
        (3) subject to section 4, transfer the license to the Town.
SEC. 4. CONDITIONS OF TRANSFER.
    (a) Application for Transfer.--The Town may request the 
reinstatement, extension, and transfer of the license by filing an 
application for approval of the transfer.
    (b) Contents of Application.--The application for approval of the 
transfer shall set forth in appropriate detail the qualifications of 
the Town to hold the license and to operate the property under license, 
which qualifications shall be the same as those required of applicants 
for the license.
    (c) Commission Approval.--The Commission may approve the transfer 
on a showing that the transfer is in the public interest.
    (d) Terms and Conditions of Licenses.--The Town shall be subject 
to--
        (1) all the conditions of the license and all the provisions 
    and conditions of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 791a et seq.), 
    as though the Town were the original licensee; and
        (2) any additional terms and conditions the Commission 
    determines to be necessary, including conditions for the 
    protection, mitigation, and enhancement of fish and wildlife and 
    related habitat under sections 10(j) and 18 of the Federal Power 
    Act (16 U.S.C. 803(j), 811).
SEC. 5. ADMINISTRATION.
    The Commission shall supplement the environmental impact statement 
or similar analysis required under the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) prepared in connection with the 
issuance of the original license to examine all new circumstances and 
information relevant to environmental concerns and bearing on the 
reinstatement of the license or the impact of the license.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
