
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 4681 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4681

                     One Hundred Thirteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and fourteen


                                 An Act


 
     To authorize appropriations for fiscal years 2014 and 2015 for 
 intelligence and intelligence-related activities of the United States 
     Government, the Community Management Account, and the Central 
  Intelligence Agency Retirement and Disability System, and for other 
                                purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Intelligence 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Budgetary effects.

                    TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 102. Classified Schedule of Authorizations.
Sec. 103. Personnel ceiling adjustments.
Sec. 104. Intelligence Community Management Account.

 TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.

                      TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                       Subtitle A--General Matters

Sec. 301. Increase in employee compensation and benefits authorized by 
          law.
Sec. 302. Restriction on conduct of intelligence activities.
Sec. 303. National intelligence strategy.
Sec. 304. Software licensing.
Sec. 305. Reporting of certain employment activities by former 
          intelligence officers and employees.
Sec. 306. Inclusion of Predominantly Black Institutions in intelligence 
          officer training program.
Sec. 307. Management and oversight of financial intelligence.
Sec. 308. Analysis of private sector policies and procedures for 
          countering insider threats.
Sec. 309. Procedures for the retention of incidentally acquired 
          communications.
Sec. 310. Clarification of limitation of review to retaliatory security 
          clearance or access determinations.
Sec. 311. Feasibility study on consolidating classified databases of 
          cyber threat indicators and malware samples.
Sec. 312. Sense of Congress on cybersecurity threat and cybercrime 
          cooperation with Ukraine.
Sec. 313. Replacement of locally employed staff serving at United States 
          diplomatic facilities in the Russian Federation.
Sec. 314. Inclusion of Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities in 
          United States diplomatic facilities in the Russian Federation 
          and adjacent countries.

                          Subtitle B--Reporting

Sec. 321. Report on declassification process.
Sec. 322. Report on intelligence community efficient spending targets.
Sec. 323. Annual report on violations of law or executive order.
Sec. 324. Annual report on intelligence activities of the Department of 
          Homeland Security.
Sec. 325. Report on political prison camps in North Korea.
Sec. 326. Assessment of security of domestic oil refineries and related 
          rail transportation infrastructure.
Sec. 327. Enhanced contractor level assessments for the intelligence 
          community.
Sec. 328. Assessment of the efficacy of memoranda of understanding to 
          facilitate intelligence-sharing.
Sec. 329. Report on foreign man-made electromagnetic pulse weapons.
Sec. 330. Report on United States counterterrorism strategy to disrupt, 
          dismantle, and defeat al-Qaeda and its affiliated or 
          associated groups.
Sec. 331. Feasibility study on retraining veterans in cybersecurity.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
    In this Act:
        (1) Congressional intelligence committees.--The term 
    ``congressional intelligence committees'' means--
            (A) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives.
        (2) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
    community'' has the meaning given that term in section 3(4) of the 
    National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).
SEC. 3. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.
    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go-Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

                    TITLE I--INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES

    SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 
for the conduct of the intelligence and intelligence-related activities 
of the following elements of the United States Government:
        (1) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
        (2) The Central Intelligence Agency.
        (3) The Department of Defense.
        (4) The Defense Intelligence Agency.
        (5) The National Security Agency.
        (6) The Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and 
    the Department of the Air Force.
        (7) The Coast Guard.
        (8) The Department of State.
        (9) The Department of the Treasury.
        (10) The Department of Energy.
        (11) The Department of Justice.
        (12) The Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        (13) The Drug Enforcement Administration.
        (14) The National Reconnaissance Office.
        (15) The National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency.
        (16) The Department of Homeland Security.
    SEC. 102. CLASSIFIED SCHEDULE OF AUTHORIZATIONS.
    (a) Specifications of Amounts and Personnel Levels.--The amounts 
authorized to be appropriated under section 101 and, subject to section 
103, the authorized personnel ceilings as of September 30, 2015, for 
the conduct of the intelligence activities of the elements listed in 
paragraphs (1) through (16) of section 101, are those specified in the 
classified Schedule of Authorizations prepared to accompany the bill 
H.R. 4681 of the One Hundred Thirteenth Congress.
    (b) Availability of Classified Schedule of Authorizations.--
        (1) Availability.--The classified Schedule of Authorizations 
    referred to in subsection (a) shall be made available to the 
    Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, the Committee on 
    Appropriations of the House of Representatives, and to the 
    President.
        (2) Distribution by the president.--Subject to paragraph (3), 
    the President shall provide for suitable distribution of the 
    classified Schedule of Authorizations, or of appropriate portions 
    of the Schedule, within the executive branch.
        (3) Limits on disclosure.--The President shall not publicly 
    disclose the classified Schedule of Authorizations or any portion 
    of such Schedule except--
            (A) as provided in section 601(a) of the Implementing 
        Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 (50 U.S.C. 
        3306(a));
            (B) to the extent necessary to implement the budget; or
            (C) as otherwise required by law.
    SEC. 103. PERSONNEL CEILING ADJUSTMENTS.
    (a) Authority for Increases.--The Director of National Intelligence 
may authorize employment of civilian personnel in excess of the number 
authorized for fiscal year 2015 by the classified Schedule of 
Authorizations referred to in section 102(a) if the Director of 
National Intelligence determines that such action is necessary to the 
performance of important intelligence functions, except that the number 
of personnel employed in excess of the number authorized under such 
section may not, for any element of the intelligence community, exceed 
3 percent of the number of civilian personnel authorized under such 
Schedule for such element.
    (b) Treatment of Certain Personnel.--The Director of National 
Intelligence shall establish guidelines that govern, for each element 
of the intelligence community, the treatment under the personnel levels 
authorized under section 102(a), including any exemption from such 
personnel levels, of employment or assignment in--
        (1) a student program, trainee program, or similar program;
        (2) a reserve corps or as a reemployed annuitant; or
        (3) details, joint duty, or long term, full-time training.
    (c) Notice to Congressional Intelligence Committees.--The Director 
of National Intelligence shall notify the congressional intelligence 
committees in writing at least 15 days prior to each exercise of an 
authority described in subsection (a).
    SEC. 104. INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated for the Intelligence Community Management Account of the 
Director of National Intelligence for fiscal year 2015 the sum of 
$507,400,000. Within such amount, funds identified in the classified 
Schedule of Authorizations referred to in section 102(a) for advanced 
research and development shall remain available until September 30, 
2016.
    (b) Authorized Personnel Levels.--The elements within the 
Intelligence Community Management Account of the Director of National 
Intelligence are authorized 794 positions as of September 30, 2015. 
Personnel serving in such elements may be permanent employees of the 
Office of the Director of National Intelligence or personnel detailed 
from other elements of the United States Government.
    (c) Classified Authorizations.--
        (1) Authorization of appropriations.--In addition to amounts 
    authorized to be appropriated for the Intelligence Community 
    Management Account by subsection (a), there are authorized to be 
    appropriated for the Community Management Account for fiscal year 
    2015 such additional amounts as are specified in the classified 
    Schedule of Authorizations referred to in section 102(a). Such 
    additional amounts for advanced research and development shall 
    remain available until September 30, 2016.
        (2) Authorization of personnel.--In addition to the personnel 
    authorized by subsection (b) for elements of the Intelligence 
    Community Management Account as of September 30, 2015, there are 
    authorized such additional personnel for the Community Management 
    Account as of that date as are specified in the classified Schedule 
    of Authorizations referred to in section 102(a).

 TITLE II--CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY RETIREMENT AND DISABILITY SYSTEM

    SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    There is authorized to be appropriated for the Central Intelligence 
Agency Retirement and Disability Fund for fiscal year 2015 the sum of 
$514,000,000.

                     TITLE III--GENERAL PROVISIONS
                      Subtitle A--General Matters

    SEC. 301. INCREASE IN EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS AUTHORIZED 
      BY LAW.
    Appropriations authorized by this Act for salary, pay, retirement, 
and other benefits for Federal employees may be increased by such 
additional or supplemental amounts as may be necessary for increases in 
such compensation or benefits authorized by law.
    SEC. 302. RESTRICTION ON CONDUCT OF INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.
    The authorization of appropriations by this Act shall not be deemed 
to constitute authority for the conduct of any intelligence activity 
which is not otherwise authorized by the Constitution or the laws of 
the United States.
    SEC. 303. NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE STRATEGY.
    (a) In General.--Title I of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3021 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 108 the 
following:
``SEC. 108A. NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE STRATEGY.
    ``(a) In General.--Beginning in 2017, and once every 4 years 
thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence shall develop a 
comprehensive national intelligence strategy to meet national security 
objectives for the following 4-year period, or a longer period, if 
appropriate.
    ``(b) Requirements.--Each national intelligence strategy required 
by subsection (a) shall--
        ``(1) delineate a national intelligence strategy consistent 
    with--
            ``(A) the most recent national security strategy report 
        submitted pursuant to section 108;
            ``(B) the strategic plans of other relevant departments and 
        agencies of the United States; and
            ``(C) other relevant national-level plans;
        ``(2) address matters related to national and military 
    intelligence, including counterintelligence;
        ``(3) identify the major national security missions that the 
    intelligence community is currently pursuing and will pursue in the 
    future to meet the anticipated security environment;
        ``(4) describe how the intelligence community will utilize 
    personnel, technology, partnerships, and other capabilities to 
    pursue the major national security missions identified in paragraph 
    (3);
        ``(5) assess current, emerging, and future threats to the 
    intelligence community, including threats from foreign intelligence 
    and security services and insider threats;
        ``(6) outline the organizational roles and missions of the 
    elements of the intelligence community as part of an integrated 
    enterprise to meet customer demands for intelligence products, 
    services, and support;
        ``(7) identify sources of strategic, institutional, 
    programmatic, fiscal, and technological risk; and
        ``(8) analyze factors that may affect the intelligence 
    community's performance in pursuing the major national security 
    missions identified in paragraph (3) during the following 10-year 
    period.
    ``(c) Submission to Congress.--The Director of National 
Intelligence shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees 
a report on each national intelligence strategy required by subsection 
(a) not later than 45 days after the date of the completion of such 
strategy.''.
    (b) Table of Contents Amendments.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 108 the following new 
item:

``Sec. 108A. National intelligence strategy.''.
    SEC. 304. SOFTWARE LICENSING.
    Section 109 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3044) 
is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``usage; and'' and 
    inserting ``usage, including--
            ``(A) increasing the centralization of the management of 
        software licenses;
            ``(B) increasing the regular tracking and maintaining of 
        comprehensive inventories of software licenses using automated 
        discovery and inventory tools and metrics;
            ``(C) analyzing software license data to inform investment 
        decisions; and
            ``(D) providing appropriate personnel with sufficient 
        software licenses management training; and'';
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``usage.'' and inserting 
        ``usage, including--
            ``(A) increasing the centralization of the management of 
        software licenses;
            ``(B) increasing the regular tracking and maintaining of 
        comprehensive inventories of software licenses using automated 
        discovery and inventory tools and metrics;
            ``(C) analyzing software license data to inform investment 
        decisions; and
            ``(D) providing appropriate personnel with sufficient 
        software licenses management training; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) based on the assessment required under paragraph (2), 
    make such recommendations with respect to software procurement and 
    usage to the Director of National Intelligence as the Chief 
    Information Officer considers appropriate.''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Implementation of Recommendations.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date on which the Director of National Intelligence receives 
recommendations from the Chief Information Officer of the Intelligence 
Community in accordance with subsection (b)(3), the Director of 
National Intelligence shall, to the extent practicable, issue 
guidelines for the intelligence community on software procurement and 
usage based on such recommendations.''.
    SEC. 305. REPORTING OF CERTAIN EMPLOYMENT ACTIVITIES BY FORMER 
      INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
    (a) Restriction.--Title III of the National Security Act of 1947 
(50 U.S.C. 3071 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 303 the 
following new section:
    ``SEC. 304. REPORTING OF CERTAIN EMPLOYMENT ACTIVITIES BY FORMER 
      INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
    ``(a) In General.--The head of each element of the intelligence 
community shall issue regulations requiring each employee of such 
element occupying a covered position to sign a written agreement 
requiring the regular reporting of covered employment to the head of 
such element.
    ``(b) Agreement Elements.--The regulations required under 
subsection (a) shall provide that an agreement contain provisions 
requiring each employee occupying a covered position to, during the 
two-year period beginning on the date on which such employee ceases to 
occupy such covered position--
        ``(1) report covered employment to the head of the element of 
    the intelligence community that employed such employee in such 
    covered position upon accepting such covered employment; and
        ``(2) annually (or more frequently if the head of such element 
    considers it appropriate) report covered employment to the head of 
    such element.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Covered employment.--The term `covered employment' means 
    direct employment by, representation of, or the provision of advice 
    relating to national security to the government of a foreign 
    country or any person whose activities are directly or indirectly 
    supervised, directed, controlled, financed, or subsidized, in whole 
    or in major part, by any government of a foreign country.
        ``(2) Covered position.--The term `covered position' means a 
    position within an element of the intelligence community that, 
    based on the level of access of a person occupying such position to 
    information regarding sensitive intelligence sources or methods or 
    other exceptionally sensitive matters, the head of such element 
    determines should be subject to the requirements of this section.
        ``(3) Government of a foreign country.--The term `government of 
    a foreign country' has the meaning given the term in section 1(e) 
    of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938 (22 U.S.C. 
    611(e)).''.
    (b) Regulations and Certification.--
        (1) Regulations.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the head of each element of the intelligence 
    community shall issue the regulations required under section 304 of 
    the National Security Act of 1947, as added by subsection (a) of 
    this section.
        (2) Certification.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence 
    shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees--
            (A) a certification that each head of an element of the 
        intelligence community has prescribed the regulations required 
        under section 304 of the National Security Act of 1947, as 
        added by subsection (a) of this section; or
            (B) if the Director is unable to submit the certification 
        described under subparagraph (A), an explanation as to why the 
        Director is unable to submit such certification, including a 
        designation of which heads of an element of the intelligence 
        community have prescribed the regulations required under such 
        section 304 and which have not.
    (c) Table of Contents Amendments.--The table of contents in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended--
        (1) by striking the second item relating to section 302 (Under 
    Secretaries and Assistant Secretaries) and the items relating to 
    sections 304, 305, and 306; and
        (2) by inserting after the item relating to section 303 the 
    following new item:

``Sec. 304. Reporting of certain employment activities by former 
          intelligence officers and employees.''.
    SEC. 306. INCLUSION OF PREDOMINANTLY BLACK INSTITUTIONS IN 
      INTELLIGENCE OFFICER TRAINING PROGRAM.
    Section 1024 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3224) 
is amended--
        (1) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting ``and Predominantly 
    Black Institutions'' after ``universities''; and
        (2) in subsection (g)--
            (A) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph:
        ``(4) Predominantly black institution.--The term `Predominantly 
    Black Institution' has the meaning given the term in section 318 of 
    the Higher education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059e).''.
    SEC. 307. MANAGEMENT AND OVERSIGHT OF FINANCIAL INTELLIGENCE.
    (a) Requirement for Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
prepare a plan for management of the elements of the intelligence 
community that carry out financial intelligence activities.
    (b) Contents of Plan.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall 
establish a governance framework, procedures for sharing and 
harmonizing the acquisition and use of financial analytic tools, 
standards for quality of analytic products, procedures for oversight 
and evaluation of resource allocations associated with the joint 
development of information sharing efforts and tools, and an education 
and training model for elements of the intelligence community that 
carry out financial intelligence activities.
    (c) Briefing to Congress.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence 
shall brief the congressional intelligence committees on the actions 
the Director proposes to implement the plan required by subsection (a).
    SEC. 308. ANALYSIS OF PRIVATE SECTOR POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR 
      COUNTERING INSIDER THREATS.
    (a) Analysis.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the National Counterintelligence Executive, shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees an analysis of 
private sector policies and procedures for countering insider threats.
    (b) Content.--The analysis required by subsection (a) shall 
include--
        (1) a review of whether and how the intelligence community 
    could utilize private sector hiring and human resources best 
    practices to screen, vet, and validate the credentials, 
    capabilities, and character of applicants for positions involving 
    trusted access to sensitive information;
        (2) an analysis of private sector policies for holding 
    supervisors and subordinates accountable for violations of 
    established security protocols and whether the intelligence 
    community should adopt similar policies for positions of trusted 
    access to sensitive information;
        (3) an assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
    applying mandatory leave policies, similar to those endorsed by the 
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Securities and 
    Exchange Commission to identify fraud in the financial services 
    industry, to certain positions within the intelligence community; 
    and
        (4) recommendations for how the intelligence community could 
    utilize private sector risk indices, such as credit risk scores, to 
    make determinations about employee access to sensitive information.
    SEC. 309. PROCEDURES FOR THE RETENTION OF INCIDENTALLY ACQUIRED 
      COMMUNICATIONS.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Covered communication.--The term ``covered communication'' 
    means any nonpublic telephone or electronic communication acquired 
    without the consent of a person who is a party to the 
    communication, including communications in electronic storage.
        (2) Head of an element of the intelligence community.--The term 
    ``head of an element of the intelligence community'' means, as 
    appropriate--
            (A) the head of an element of the intelligence community; 
        or
            (B) the head of the department or agency containing such 
        element.
        (3) United states person.--The term ``United States person'' 
    has the meaning given that term in section 101 of the Foreign 
    Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801).
    (b) Procedures for Covered Communications.--
        (1) Requirement to adopt.--Not later than 2 years after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act each head of an element of the 
    intelligence community shall adopt procedures approved by the 
    Attorney General for such element that ensure compliance with the 
    requirements of paragraph (3).
        (2) Coordination and approval.--The procedures required by 
    paragraph (1) shall be--
            (A) prepared in coordination with the Director of National 
        Intelligence; and
            (B) approved by the Attorney General prior to issuance.
        (3) Procedures.--
            (A) Application.--The procedures required by paragraph (1) 
        shall apply to any intelligence collection activity not 
        otherwise authorized by court order (including an order or 
        certification issued by a court established under subsection 
        (a) or (b) of section 103 of the Foreign Intelligence 
        Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1803)), subpoena, or 
        similar legal process that is reasonably anticipated to result 
        in the acquisition of a covered communication to or from a 
        United States person and shall permit the acquisition, 
        retention, and dissemination of covered communications subject 
        to the limitation in subparagraph (B).
            (B) Limitation on retention.--A covered communication shall 
        not be retained in excess of 5 years, unless--
                (i) the communication has been affirmatively 
            determined, in whole or in part, to constitute foreign 
            intelligence or counterintelligence or is necessary to 
            understand or assess foreign intelligence or 
            counterintelligence;
                (ii) the communication is reasonably believed to 
            constitute evidence of a crime and is retained by a law 
            enforcement agency;
                (iii) the communication is enciphered or reasonably 
            believed to have a secret meaning;
                (iv) all parties to the communication are reasonably 
            believed to be non-United States persons;
                (v) retention is necessary to protect against an 
            imminent threat to human life, in which case both the 
            nature of the threat and the information to be retained 
            shall be reported to the congressional intelligence 
            committees not later than 30 days after the date such 
            retention is extended under this clause;
                (vi) retention is necessary for technical assurance or 
            compliance purposes, including a court order or discovery 
            obligation, in which case access to information retained 
            for technical assurance or compliance purposes shall be 
            reported to the congressional intelligence committees on an 
            annual basis; or
                (vii) retention for a period in excess of 5 years is 
            approved by the head of the element of the intelligence 
            community responsible for such retention, based on a 
            determination that retention is necessary to protect the 
            national security of the United States, in which case the 
            head of such element shall provide to the congressional 
            intelligence committees a written certification 
            describing--

                    (I) the reasons extended retention is necessary to 
                protect the national security of the United States;
                    (II) the duration for which the head of the element 
                is authorizing retention;
                    (III) the particular information to be retained; 
                and
                    (IV) the measures the element of the intelligence 
                community is taking to protect the privacy interests of 
                United States persons or persons located inside the 
                United States.

    SEC. 310. CLARIFICATION OF LIMITATION OF REVIEW TO RETALIATORY 
      SECURITY CLEARANCE OR ACCESS DETERMINATIONS.
    Section 3001(b)(7) of the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism 
Prevention Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 3341(b)(7)) is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
    ``2014--'' and inserting ``2014, and consistent with subsection 
    (j)--'';
        (2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``to appeal a 
    determination to suspend or revoke a security clearance or access 
    to classified information'' and inserting ``alleging reprisal for 
    having made a protected disclosure (provided the individual does 
    not disclose classified information or other information contrary 
    to law) to appeal any action affecting an employee's access to 
    classified information''; and
        (3) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``information,'' inserting 
    ``information following a protected disclosure,''.
    SEC. 311. FEASIBILITY STUDY ON CONSOLIDATING CLASSIFIED DATABASES 
      OF CYBER THREAT INDICATORS AND MALWARE SAMPLES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of 
the National Security Agency, the Director of the Central Intelligence 
Agency, and the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall 
conduct a feasibility study on consolidating classified databases of 
cyber threat indicators and malware samples in the intelligence 
community.
    (b) Elements.--The feasibility study required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
        (1) An inventory of classified databases of cyber threat 
    indicators and malware samples in the intelligence community.
        (2) An assessment of actions that could be carried out to 
    consolidate such databases to achieve the greatest possible 
    information sharing within the intelligence community and cost 
    savings for the Federal Government.
        (3) An assessment of any impediments to such consolidation.
        (4) An assessment of whether the Intelligence Community 
    Information Technology Enterprise can support such consolidation.
    (c) Report to Congress.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
which the Director of National Intelligence completes the feasibility 
study required by subsection (a), the Director shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees a written report that summarizes 
the feasibility study, including the information required under 
subsection (b).
    SEC. 312. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CYBERSECURITY THREAT AND CYBERCRIME 
      COOPERATION WITH UKRAINE.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) cooperation between the intelligence and law enforcement 
    agencies of the United States and Ukraine should be increased to 
    improve cybersecurity policies between these two countries;
        (2) the United States should pursue improved extradition 
    procedures among the Governments of the United States, Ukraine, and 
    other countries from which cybercriminals target United States 
    citizens and entities;
        (3) the President should--
            (A) initiate a round of formal United States-Ukraine 
        bilateral talks on cybersecurity threat and cybercrime 
        cooperation, with additional multilateral talks that include 
        other law enforcement partners such as Europol and Interpol; 
        and
            (B) work to obtain a commitment from the Government of 
        Ukraine to end cybercrime directed at persons outside Ukraine 
        and to work with the United States and other allies to deter 
        and convict known cybercriminals;
        (4) the President should establish a capacity building program 
    with the Government of Ukraine, which could include--
            (A) a joint effort to improve cyber capacity building, 
        including intelligence and law enforcement services in Ukraine;
            (B) sending United States law enforcement agents to aid law 
        enforcement agencies in Ukraine in investigating cybercrimes; 
        and
            (C) agreements to improve communications networks to 
        enhance law enforcement cooperation, such as a hotline directly 
        connecting law enforcement agencies in the United States and 
        Ukraine; and
        (5) the President should establish and maintain an intelligence 
    and law enforcement cooperation scorecard with metrics designed to 
    measure the number of instances that intelligence and law 
    enforcement agencies in the United States request assistance from 
    intelligence and law enforcement agencies in Ukraine and the number 
    and type of responses received to such requests.
    SEC. 313. REPLACEMENT OF LOCALLY EMPLOYED STAFF SERVING AT UNITED 
      STATES DIPLOMATIC FACILITIES IN THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    (a) Employment Requirement.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of State shall ensure that, not 
    later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
    every supervisory position at a United States diplomatic facility 
    in the Russian Federation shall be occupied by a citizen of the 
    United States who has passed, and shall be subject to, a thorough 
    background check.
        (2) Extension.--The Secretary of State may extend the deadline 
    under paragraph (1) for up to one year by providing advance written 
    notification and justification of such extension to the appropriate 
    congressional committees.
        (3) Progress report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to 
    the appropriate congressional committees a report on progress made 
    toward meeting the employment requirement under paragraph (1).
    (b) Plan for Reduced Use of Locally Employed Staff.--Not later than 
180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
State, in coordination with other appropriate government agencies, 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a plan to 
further reduce the reliance on locally employed staff in United States 
diplomatic facilities in the Russian Federation. The plan shall, at a 
minimum, include cost estimates, timelines, and numbers of employees to 
be replaced.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional intelligence committees;
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (3) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to infringe on the power of the President, by and with the 
advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint ambassadors, other public 
ministers, and consuls.''
    SEC. 314. INCLUSION OF SENSITIVE COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION 
      FACILITIES IN UNITED STATES DIPLOMATIC FACILITIES IN THE RUSSIAN 
      FEDERATION AND ADJACENT COUNTRIES.
    (a) Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility Requirement.--Each 
United States diplomatic facility that, after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, is constructed in, or undergoes a construction upgrade in, 
the Russian Federation, any country that shares a land border with the 
Russian Federation, or any country that is a former member of the 
Soviet Union shall be constructed to include a Sensitive Compartmented 
Information Facility.
    (b) National Security Waiver.--The Secretary of State may waive the 
requirement under subsection (a) if the Secretary determines that such 
waiver is in the national security interest of the United States and 
submits a written justification to the appropriate congressional 
committees not later than 180 days before exercising such waiver.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional intelligence committees;
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (3) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives.

                         Subtitle B--Reporting

    SEC. 321. REPORT ON DECLASSIFICATION PROCESS.
    Not later than December 31, 2016, the Director of National 
Intelligence shall submit to Congress a report describing--
        (1) proposals to improve the declassification process 
    throughout the intelligence community; and
        (2) steps the intelligence community could take, or legislation 
    that may be necessary, to enable the National Declassification 
    Center to better accomplish the missions assigned to the Center by 
    Executive Order No. 13526 (75 Fed. Reg. 707).
    SEC. 322. REPORT ON INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY EFFICIENT SPENDING 
      TARGETS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than April 1, 2016, and April 1, 2017, 
the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees a report on the status and effectiveness of 
efforts to reduce administrative costs for the intelligence community 
during the preceding year.
    (b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include for 
each element of the intelligence community the following:
        (1) A description of the status and effectiveness of efforts to 
    devise alternatives to government travel and promote efficient 
    travel spending, such as teleconferencing and video conferencing.
        (2) A description of the status and effectiveness of efforts to 
    limit costs related to hosting and attending conferences.
        (3) A description of the status and effectiveness of efforts to 
    assess information technology inventories and usage, and establish 
    controls, to reduce costs related to underutilized information 
    technology equipment, software, or services.
        (4) A description of the status and effectiveness of efforts to 
    limit the publication and printing of hard copy documents.
        (5) A description of the status and effectiveness of efforts to 
    improve the performance of Federal fleet motor vehicles and limit 
    executive transportation.
        (6) A description of the status and effectiveness of efforts to 
    limit the purchase of extraneous promotional items, such as 
    plaques, clothing, and commemorative items.
        (7) A description of the status and effectiveness of efforts to 
    consolidate and streamline workforce training programs to focus on 
    the highest priority workforce and mission needs.
        (8) Such other matters relating to efforts to reduce 
    intelligence community administrative costs as the Director may 
    specify for purposes of this section.
    SEC. 323. ANNUAL REPORT ON VIOLATIONS OF LAW OR EXECUTIVE ORDER.
    (a) In General.--Title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``SEC. 511. ANNUAL REPORT ON VIOLATIONS OF LAW OR EXECUTIVE ORDER.
    ``(a) Annual Reports Required.--The Director of National 
Intelligence shall annually submit to the congressional intelligence 
committees a report on violations of law or executive order relating to 
intelligence activities by personnel of an element of the intelligence 
community that were identified during the previous calendar year.
    ``(b) Elements.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall, 
consistent with the need to preserve ongoing criminal investigations, 
include a description of, and any action taken in response to, any 
violation of law or executive order (including Executive Order No. 
12333 (50 U.S.C. 3001 note)) relating to intelligence activities 
committed by personnel of an element of the intelligence community in 
the course of the employment of such personnel that, during the 
previous calendar year, was--
        ``(1) determined by the director, head, or general counsel of 
    any element of the intelligence community to have occurred;
        ``(2) referred to the Department of Justice for possible 
    criminal prosecution; or
        ``(3) substantiated by the inspector general of any element of 
    the intelligence community.''.
    (b) Initial Report.--The first report required under section 511 of 
the National Security Act of 1947, as added by subsection (a), shall be 
submitted not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (c) Guidelines.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the head of each element of the intelligence 
community, shall--
        (1) issue guidelines to carry out section 511 of the National 
    Security Act of 1947, as added by subsection (a); and
        (2) submit such guidelines to the congressional intelligence 
    committees.
    (d) Table of Contents Amendment.--The table of sections in the 
first section of the National Security Act of 1947 is amended by adding 
after the item relating to section 510 the following new item:

``Sec. 511. Annual report on violations of law or executive order.''.

    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section or the 
amendments made by this section shall be construed to alter any 
requirement existing on the date of the enactment of this Act to submit 
a report under any provision of law.
    SEC. 324. ANNUAL REPORT ON INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES OF THE 
      DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.
    (a) In General.--For each fiscal year and along with the budget 
materials submitted in support of the budget of the Department of 
Homeland Security pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, the Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis of the 
Department shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a 
report for such fiscal year on each intelligence activity of each 
intelligence component of the Department, as designated by the Under 
Secretary, that includes the following:
        (1) The amount of funding requested for each such intelligence 
    activity.
        (2) The number of full-time employees funded to perform each 
    such intelligence activity.
        (3) The number of full-time contractor employees (or the 
    equivalent of full-time in the case of part-time contractor 
    employees) funded to perform or in support of each such 
    intelligence activity.
        (4) A determination as to whether each such intelligence 
    activity is predominantly in support of national intelligence or 
    departmental missions.
        (5) The total number of analysts of the Intelligence Enterprise 
    of the Department that perform--
            (A) strategic analysis; or
            (B) operational analysis.
    (b) Feasibility and Advisability Report.--Not later than 120 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, acting through the Under Secretary for Intelligence and 
Analysis, shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a 
report that--
        (1) examines the feasibility and advisability of including the 
    budget request for all intelligence activities of each intelligence 
    component of the Department that predominantly support departmental 
    missions, as designated by the Under Secretary for Intelligence and 
    Analysis, in the Homeland Security Intelligence Program; and
        (2) includes a plan to enhance the coordination of department-
    wide intelligence activities to achieve greater efficiencies in the 
    performance of the Department of Homeland Security intelligence 
    functions.
    (c) Intelligence Component of the Department.--In this section, the 
term ``intelligence component of the Department'' has the meaning given 
that term in section 2 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
101).
    SEC. 325. REPORT ON POLITICAL PRISON CAMPS IN NORTH KOREA.
    (a) In General.--The Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
House of Representatives a report on political prison camps in North 
Korea.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall--
        (1) describe the actions the United States is taking to support 
    implementation of the recommendations of the United Nations 
    Commission of Inquiry on Human Rights in the Democratic People's 
    Republic of Korea, including the eventual establishment of a 
    tribunal to hold individuals accountable for abuses; and
        (2) include, with respect to each political prison camp in 
    North Korea to the extent information is available--
            (A) the estimated prisoner population of each such camp;
            (B) the geographical coordinates of each such camp;
            (C) the reasons for confinement of the prisoners at each 
        such camp;
            (D) a description of the primary industries and products 
        made at each such camp, and the end users of any goods produced 
        in such camp;
            (E) information regarding involvement of any non-North 
        Korean entity or individual involved in the operations of each 
        such camp, including as an end user or source of any good or 
        products used in, or produced by, in such camp;
            (F) information identifying individuals and agencies 
        responsible for conditions in each such camp at all levels of 
        the Government of North Korea;
            (G) a description of the conditions under which prisoners 
        are confined, with respect to the adequacy of food, shelter, 
        medical care, working conditions, and reports of ill-treatment 
        of prisoners, at each such camp; and
            (H) unclassified imagery, including satellite imagery, of 
        each such camp.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in an unclassified form and may include a classified annex if 
necessary.
    SEC. 326. ASSESSMENT OF SECURITY OF DOMESTIC OIL REFINERIES AND 
      RELATED RAIL TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE.
    (a) Assessment.--The Under Secretary of Homeland Security for 
Intelligence and Analysis shall conduct an intelligence assessment of 
the security of domestic oil refineries and related rail transportation 
infrastructure.
    (b) Submission.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for 
Intelligence and Analysis shall submit to the congressional 
intelligence committees--
        (1) the results of the assessment required under subsection 
    (a); and
        (2) any recommendations with respect to intelligence sharing or 
    intelligence collection to improve the security of domestic oil 
    refineries and related rail transportation infrastructure to 
    protect the communities surrounding such refineries or such 
    infrastructure from potential harm that the Under Secretary 
    considers appropriate.
    SEC. 327. ENHANCED CONTRACTOR LEVEL ASSESSMENTS FOR THE 
      INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.
    Section 506B(c) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3098(c)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (11), by striking ``or contracted'';
        (2) by redesignating paragraph (12) as paragraph (13); and
        (3) by inserting after paragraph (11) the following:
        ``(12) The best estimate of the number of intelligence 
    collectors and analysts contracted by each element of the 
    intelligence community and a description of the functions performed 
    by such contractors.''.
    SEC. 328. ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFICACY OF MEMORANDA OF UNDERSTANDING 
      TO FACILITATE INTELLIGENCE-SHARING.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Under Secretary of Homeland Security for Intelligence and Analysis, 
in consultation with the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation and the Program Manager of the Information Sharing 
Environment, shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees, 
the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
Senate, the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
Representatives, the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, and the 
Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives an 
assessment of the efficacy of the memoranda of understanding signed 
between Federal, State, local, tribal, and territorial agencies to 
facilitate intelligence-sharing within and separate from the Joint 
Terrorism Task Force. Such assessment shall include--
        (1) any language within such memoranda of understanding that 
    prohibited or may be construed to prohibit intelligence-sharing 
    between Federal, State, local, tribal, and territorial agencies; 
    and
        (2) any recommendations for memoranda of understanding to 
    better facilitate intelligence-sharing between Federal, State, 
    local, tribal, and territorial agencies.
    SEC. 329. REPORT ON FOREIGN MAN-MADE ELECTROMAGNETIC PULSE WEAPONS.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the congressional intelligence committees, the Committee on 
Armed Services of the Senate, and the Committee on Armed Services of 
the House of Representatives a report on the threat posed by man-made 
electromagnetic pulse weapons to United States interests through 2025, 
including threats from foreign countries and foreign non-State actors.
    (b) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    SEC. 330. REPORT ON UNITED STATES COUNTERTERRORISM STRATEGY TO 
      DISRUPT, DISMANTLE, AND DEFEAT AL-QAEDA AND ITS AFFILIATED OR 
      ASSOCIATED GROUPS.
    (a) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
    submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a comprehensive 
    report on the United States counterterrorism strategy to disrupt, 
    dismantle, and defeat al-Qaeda and its affiliated or associated 
    groups.
        (2) Coordination.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    be prepared in coordination with the Secretary of State, the 
    Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, and the Secretary 
    of Defense, and the head of any other department or agency of the 
    United States Government that has responsibility for activities 
    directed at combating al-Qaeda and its affiliated or associated 
    groups.
        (3) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A definition of--
                (i) al-Qaeda core, including a list of which known 
            individuals constitute al-Qaeda core;
                (ii) an affiliated group of al-Qaeda, including a list 
            of which known groups constitute an affiliate group of al-
            Qaeda;
                (iii) an associated group of al-Qaeda, including a list 
            of which known groups constitute an associated group of al-
            Qaeda; and
                (iv) a group aligned with al-Qaeda, including a 
            description of what actions a group takes or statements it 
            makes that qualify it as a group aligned with al-Qaeda.
            (B) A list of any other group, including the organization 
        that calls itself the Islamic State (also known as ``ISIS'' or 
        ``ISIL''), that adheres to the core mission of al-Qaeda, or who 
        espouses the same violent jihad ideology as al-Qaeda.
            (C) An assessment of the relationship between al-Qaeda core 
        and the groups referred to in subparagraph (B).
            (D) An assessment of the strengthening or weakening of al-
        Qaeda and the groups referred to in subparagraph (B) from 
        January 1, 2010, to the present, including a description of the 
        metrics that are used to assess strengthening or weakening and 
        an assessment of the relative increase or decrease in violent 
        attacks attributed to such entities.
            (E) An assessment of whether or not an individual can be a 
        member of al-Qaeda core if such individual is not located in 
        Afghanistan or Pakistan.
            (F) An assessment of whether or not an individual can be a 
        member of al-Qaeda core as well as a member of a group referred 
        to in subparagraph (B).
            (G) A definition of defeat of core al-Qaeda.
            (H) An assessment of the extent or coordination, command, 
        and control between core al-Qaeda and the groups referred to in 
        subparagraph (B), specifically addressing each such group.
            (I) An assessment of the effectiveness of counterterrorism 
        operations against core al-Qaeda and the groups referred to in 
        subparagraph (B), and whether such operations have had a 
        sustained impact on the capabilities and effectiveness of core 
        al-Qaeda and such groups.
        (4) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (b) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the congressional intelligence committees;
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
    Armed Services of the Senate; and
        (3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Armed 
    Services of the House of Representatives.
    SEC. 331. FEASIBILITY STUDY ON RETRAINING VETERANS IN 
      CYBERSECURITY.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, shall submit to Congress a feasibility 
study on retraining veterans and retired members of elements of the 
intelligence community in cybersecurity.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
