
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 770 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 770

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      December 4, 2014.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take 
from the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 3979) to amend the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 to ensure that emergency services volunteers are not taken into account 
as employees under the shared responsibility requirements contained in the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, with the Senate amendment thereto, 
and to consider in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a 
motion offered by the chair of the Committee on Armed Services or his designee 
that the House concur in the Senate amendment with an amendment consisting of 
the text of Rules Committee Print 113-58 modified by the amendments printed in 
part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution and 
the amendment specified in section 5 of this resolution. The Senate amendment 
and the motion shall be considered as read. The motion shall be debatable for 
one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Armed Services. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the motion to its adoption without intervening motion.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 5759) to establish a rule of construction clarifying 
the limitations on executive authority to provide certain forms of immigration 
relief. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The 
amendment in the nature of a substitute printed in part B of the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted. 
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment 
thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on the Judiciary; and (2) one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 5781) to provide short-term water supplies to 
drought-stricken California. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. The amendment printed in part C of the report of the Committee 
on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, 
as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions 
in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to 
final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Natural Resources; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 4.  The chair of the Committee on Armed Services may insert in the 
Congressional Record at any time during the remainder of the second session of 
the 113th Congress such material as he may deem explanatory of defense 
authorization measures for the fiscal year 2015.
    Sec. 5.  The amendment referred to in the first section of this resolution 
is as follows: Strike section 3096 and insert the following:

``SEC. 3096. PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF TAXES.

    ``For payments in lieu of taxes under chapter 69 of title 31, United States 
Code, which shall be available without further appropriation to the Secretary of 
the Interior--
            ``(1) $33,000,000 for fiscal year 2015; and
            ``(2) $37,000,000 to be available for obligation and payment 
        beginning on October 1, 2015.
Funds available for obligation and payment under paragraph (2) shall be paid in 
October 2015.''.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
