
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 119 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.Con.Res.119
                                     Agreed to November 20, 2014        

                     One Hundred Thirteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and fourteen


                          Concurrent Resolution

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), 
That when the House adjourns on any legislative day from Thursday, 
November 20, 2014, through Friday, November 28, 2014, on a motion 
offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader 
or his designee, it stand adjourned until 2:00 p.m. on Monday, December 
1, 2014, or until the time of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of 
this concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first; and that when the 
Senate recesses or adjourns on any day from Thursday, November 20, 
2014, through Friday, November 28, 2014, on a motion offered pursuant 
to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his designee, 
it stand recessed or adjourned until noon on Monday, December 1, 2014, 
or such other time on that day as may be specified by its Majority 
Leader or his designee in the motion to recess or adjourn, or until the 
time of any reassembly pursuant to section 3 of this concurrent 
resolution, whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 2. (a) The Speaker or his designee, after consultation with 
the Minority Leader of the House, shall notify Members of the House to 
reassemble at such place and time as he may designate if, in his 
opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
    (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the House 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the House shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
    Sec. 3. (a) The Majority Leader of the Senate or his designee, 
after concurrence with the Minority Leader of the Senate, shall notify 
the Members of the Senate to reassemble at such place and time as he 
may designate if, in his opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
    (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the Senate 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the Senate shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
Attest:

                                 Clerk of the House of Representatives.

Attest:

                                               Secretary of the Senate.
