
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 403 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 403

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     November 13, 2013.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2655) to amend Rule 11 of the Federal Rules 
of Civil Procedure to improve attorney accountability, and for other purposes. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall 
be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are 
waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on 
any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 
one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary; and (2) one motion to 
recommit.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 982) to amend title 11 of the United States Code to require the 
public disclosure by trusts established under section 524(g) of such title, of 
quarterly reports that contain detailed information regarding the receipt and 
disposition of claims for injuries based on exposure to asbestos; and for other 
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the 
Judiciary. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill are waived. No amendment to the bill shall be in 
order except those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying 
this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in 
the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be 
considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report 
equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be 
subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order 
against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the 
bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House 
with such amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
