
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 515 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 515

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        March 13, 2014.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 3189) to prohibit the conditioning of any permit, lease, or other use 
agreement on the transfer, relinquishment, or other impairment of any water 
right to the United States by the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture. 
The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined 
to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources. After 
general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute 
rule. It shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of 
amendment under the five-minute rule the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
recommended by the Committee on Natural Resources now printed in the bill. The 
committee amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. 
All points of order against the committee amendment in the nature of a 
substitute are waived. No amendment to the committee amendment in the nature of 
a substitute shall be in order except those printed in part A of the report of 
the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be 
offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member 
designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 
the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent 
and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to 
a demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion 
of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report 
the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member 
may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the 
Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the committee amendment in the nature 
of a substitute. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except 
one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 4015) to amend title XVIII of the Social Security 
Act to repeal the Medicare sustainable growth rate and improve Medicare payments 
for physicians and other professionals, and for other purposes. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment printed in 
part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution 
shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are 
waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided among and controlled by 
the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce 
and the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means; 
and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  On any legislative day during the period from March 17, 2014, 
through March 21, 2014--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 4.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 3 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
