
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 256 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 256

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 12, 2013.
    Resolved, That at any time after the adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1960) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2014 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense and for military construction, to 
prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed 
Services. After general debate, the Committee of the Whole shall rise without 
motion. No further consideration of the bill shall be in order except pursuant 
to a subsequent order of the House.
    Sec. 2.  Upon the adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 1256) to direct the Securities and Exchange 
Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission to jointly adopt rules 
setting forth the application to cross-border swaps transactions of certain 
provisions relating to swaps that were enacted as part of the Dodd-Frank Wall 
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The amendments recommended by the 
Committee on Financial Services now printed in the bill shall be considered as 
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any amendment 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate, with 40 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Financial Services and 20 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Agriculture; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  The chair of the Committee on Agriculture is authorized, on behalf 
of the committee, to file a supplemental report to accompany H.R. 1947.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
