
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5168 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5168

To authorize the Secretary of Education to award grants for the support 
       of full-service community schools, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 23, 2014

Mr. Hoyer (for himself, Mr. Schock, Ms. Norton, Mr. Murphy of Florida, 
 Mrs. Lowey, Mr. Lowenthal, Mr. Hinojosa, Ms. Schwartz, Mr. Langevin, 
  Ms. DeLauro, Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Rangel, Mr. Honda, Mr. Vela, Mr. 
     Hastings of Florida, Mr. Grijalva, Mr. Clay, Mr. Enyart, Mr. 
    Ruppersberger, Mr. Ben Ray Lujan of New Mexico, and Mr. Kilmer) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
                      Education and the Workforce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To authorize the Secretary of Education to award grants for the support 
       of full-service community schools, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Full-Service Community Schools Act 
of 2014''.

SEC. 2. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this Act are the following:
            (1) Improving student learning and development by providing 
        supports for students that enable them to graduate college- and 
        career-ready.
            (2) Providing support for the planning, implementation, and 
        operation of full-service community schools.
            (3) Improving the coordination and integration, 
        accessibility, and effectiveness of services for children and 
        families, particularly for students attending high-poverty 
        schools, including high-poverty rural schools.
            (4) Enabling educators and school personnel to complement 
        and enrich efforts to improve academic achievement and other 
        results.
            (5) Ensuring that children have the physical, social, and 
        emotional well-being to come to school ready to engage in the 
        learning process every day.
            (6) Promoting and enabling family and community engagement 
        in the education of children.
            (7) Enabling more efficient use of Federal, State, local, 
        and private sector resources that serve children and families.
            (8) Facilitating the coordination and integration of 
        programs and services operated by community-based 
        organizations, nonprofit organizations, and State, local, and 
        tribal governments.
            (9) Engaging students as resources to their communities.
            (10) Engaging the business community and other community 
        organizations as partners in the development and operation of 
        full-service community schools.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) ESEA definitions.--The terms ``elementary school'', 
        ``local educational agency'', and ``secondary school'' have the 
        meanings given the terms in section 9101 of the Elementary and 
        Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
            (2) Full-service community school.--The term ``full-service 
        community school'' means a public elementary or secondary 
        school that--
                    (A) participates in a community-based effort to 
                coordinate and integrate educational, developmental, 
                family, health, and other comprehensive services 
                through community-based organizations and public and 
                private partnerships; and
                    (B) provides access to such services to students, 
                families, and the community, such as access during the 
                school year (including before- and after-school hours 
                and weekends), as well as during the summer.

SEC. 4. LOCAL PROGRAMS.

    (a) Grants.--The Secretary of Education (in this Act referred to as 
the ``Secretary'') may award grants to eligible entities to assist 
public elementary or secondary schools to function as full-service 
community schools.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Grants awarded under this section shall be used 
to--
            (1) coordinate not less than 3 existing qualified services 
        and provide not less than 2 additional qualified services at 2 
        or more public elementary or secondary schools;
            (2) integrate multiple services into a comprehensive, 
        coordinated continuum supported by research-based activities 
        which achieve the performance goals established under 
        subsection (c)(4)(E) to meet the holistic needs of young 
        people; and
            (3) if applicable, coordinate and integrate services 
        provided by community-based organizations and government 
        agencies with services provided by specialized instructional 
        support personnel.
    (c) Application.--To seek a grant under this section, an eligible 
entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time and in 
such manner as the Secretary may require. The Secretary shall require 
that each such application include the following:
            (1) A description of the eligible entity.
            (2) A memorandum of understanding among all partner 
        entities that will assist the eligible entity to coordinate and 
        provide qualified services and that describes the roles the 
        partner entities will assume.
            (3) A description of the capacity of the eligible entity to 
        coordinate and provide qualified services at 2 or more full-
        service community schools.
            (4) A comprehensive plan that includes descriptions of the 
        following:
                    (A) The student, family, and school community to be 
                served, including information about demographic 
                characteristics that include major racial and ethnic 
                groups, median family income, percent of students 
                eligible for free- and reduced-price lunch, and other 
                information.
                    (B) A needs assessment that identifies the 
                academic, physical, social, emotional, health, mental 
                health, and other needs of students, families, and 
                community residents.
                    (C) A community assets assessment which identifies 
                existing resources which could be aligned.
                    (D) The most appropriate metric to describe the 
                plan's reach within a community using either--
                            (i) the number of families and students to 
                        be served, and the frequency of services; or
                            (ii) the proportion of families and 
                        students to be served, and the frequency of 
                        services.
                    (E) Yearly measurable performance goals, including 
                an increase in the percentage of families and students 
                targeted for services each year of the program, which 
                are consistent with the following objectives:
                            (i) Children are ready for school.
                            (ii) Students are engaged and achieving 
                        academically.
                            (iii) Students are physically, mentally, 
                        socially, and emotionally healthy.
                            (iv) Schools and neighborhoods are safe and 
                        provide a positive climate for learning that is 
                        free from bullying or harassment.
                            (v) Families are supportive and engaged in 
                        their children's education.
                            (vi) Students and families are prepared for 
                        postsecondary education and 21st century 
                        careers.
                            (vii) Students are contributing to their 
                        communities.
                    (F) Performance measures to monitor progress toward 
                attainment of the goals established under subparagraph 
                (E), including a combination of the following, to the 
                extent applicable:
                            (i) Multiple objective measures of student 
                        achievement, including assessments, classroom 
                        grades, and other means of assessing student 
                        performance.
                            (ii) Attendance (including absences related 
                        to illness and truancy) and chronic absenteeism 
                        rates.
                            (iii) Disciplinary actions against 
                        students, including suspensions and expulsions.
                            (iv) Access to health care and treatment of 
                        illnesses demonstrated to impact academic 
                        achievement.
                            (v) Performance in making progress toward 
                        intervention services goals as established by 
                        specialized instructional support personnel.
                            (vi) Participation rates by parents and 
                        family members in school-sanctioned activities 
                        and activities that occur as a result of 
                        community and school collaboration, as well as 
                        activities intended to support adult education 
                        and workforce development.
                            (vii) Number and percentage of students and 
                        family members provided services under this 
                        Act.
                            (viii) Valid measures of postsecondary 
                        education and career readiness.
                            (ix) Service-learning and community service 
                        participation rates.
                            (x) student satisfaction surveys.
                    (G) Qualified services, including existing and 
                additional qualified services, to be coordinated and 
                provided by the eligible entity and its partner 
                entities, including an explanation of--
                            (i) why such services have been selected;
                            (ii) how such services will improve student 
                        academic achievement; and
                            (iii) how such services will address 
                        performance goals established under 
                        subparagraph (E).
                    (H) Plans to ensure that each site has full-time 
                coordination of qualified services at each full-service 
                community school, including coordination with existing 
                specialized instructional support personnel.
                    (I) Planning, coordination, management, and 
                oversight of qualified services at each school to be 
                served, including the role of the school principal, 
                partner entities, parents, and members of the 
                community.
                    (J) Funding sources for qualified services to be 
                coordinated and provided at each school to be served, 
                whether such funding is derived from a grant under this 
                section or from other Federal, State, local, or private 
                sources.
                    (K) Plans for professional development for 
                personnel managing, coordinating, or delivering 
                qualified services at the schools to be served.
                    (L) Plans for joint utilization and maintenance of 
                school facilities by the eligible entity and its 
                partner entities.
                    (M) How the eligible entity and its partner 
                entities will focus services on schools eligible for a 
                schoolwide program under section 1114 of the Elementary 
                and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6314).
                    (N) Plans for periodic evaluation based upon 
                attainment of the performance measures described in 
                subparagraph (F).
                    (O) How the qualified services will meet the 
                principles of effectiveness described in subsection 
                (d).
            (5) A plan for sustaining the programs and services 
        outlined in this Act.
    (d) Principles of Effectiveness.--For a program developed pursuant 
to this section to meet principles of effectiveness, such program shall 
be based upon--
            (1) an assessment of objective data regarding the need for 
        the establishment of a full-service community school and 
        qualified services at each school to be served and in the 
        community involved;
            (2) an established set of performance measures aimed at 
        ensuring the availability and effectiveness of high-quality 
        services; and
            (3) if appropriate, scientifically based research that 
        provides evidence that the qualified services involved will 
        help students meet State and local student academic achievement 
        standards.
    (e) Priority.--In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary 
shall give priority to eligible entities that--
            (1)(A) will serve a minimum of 2 or more full-service 
        community schools eligible for a schoolwide program under 
        section 1114 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 6314), as part of a community- or district-wide 
        strategy; or
            (B) include a local educational agency that satisfies the 
        requirements of--
                    (i) subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 6211(b)(1) 
                of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
                (20 U.S.C. 7345(b)(1)); or
                    (ii) subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 
                6221(b)(1) of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
                Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7351(b)(1)); and
            (2) will be connected to a consortium comprised of a broad 
        representation of stakeholders, or a consortium demonstrating a 
        history of effectiveness.
    (f) Grant Period.--Each grant awarded under this section shall be 
for a period of 5 years and may be renewed at the discretion of the 
Secretary based on the eligible entity's demonstrated effectiveness in 
meeting the performance goals and measures established under 
subparagraphs (E) and (F) of subsection (c)(4).
    (g) Planning.--The Secretary may authorize an eligible entity to 
use grant funds under this section for planning purposes in an amount 
not greater than 10 percent of the total grant amount.
    (h) Minimum Amount.--The Secretary may not award a grant to an 
eligible entity under this section in an amount that is less than 
$75,000 for each year of the 5-year grant period.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section--
            (1) the term ``additional qualified services'' means 
        qualified services directly funded under this Act;
            (2) the term ``eligible entity'' means a consortium of 1 or 
        more local educational agencies and 1 or more community-based 
        organizations, nonprofit organizations, or other public or 
        private entities;
            (3) the term ``existing qualified services'' means 
        qualified services already being financed, as of the time of 
        the application, by Federal, State, local or private sources, 
        or volunteer activities being supported as of such time by 
        civic, business, faith-based, social, and other similar 
        organizations; and
            (4) the term ``qualified services'' means any of the 
        following:
                    (A) Early childhood education.
                    (B) Remedial education activities and enrichment 
                activities, including expanded learning time.
                    (C) Summer or after-school enrichment and learning 
                experiences.
                    (D) Programs under the Head Start Act, including 
                Early Head Start programs.
                    (E) Nurse home visitation services.
                    (F) Teacher home visiting.
                    (G) Programs that promote parental involvement and 
                family literacy, including the Reading First and Early 
                Reading First programs authorized under part B of title 
                I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
                (20 U.S.C. 6361 et seq.).
                    (H) Mentoring and other youth development programs, 
                including peer mentoring and conflict mediation.
                    (I) Parent leadership development activities.
                    (J) Parenting education activities.
                    (K) Child care services.
                    (L) Community service and service-learning 
                opportunities.
                    (M) Developmentally appropriate physical education.
                    (N) Programs that provide assistance to students 
                who have been truant, suspended, or expelled.
                    (O) Job training, internship opportunities, and 
                career counseling services.
                    (P) Nutrition services.
                    (Q) Primary health and dental care.
                    (R) Mental health counseling services.
                    (S) Adult education, including instruction in 
                English as a second language.
                    (T) Juvenile crime prevention and rehabilitation 
                programs.
                    (U) Specialized instructional support services.
                    (V) Homeless prevention services.
                    (W) Other services consistent with this Act.

SEC. 5. STATE PROGRAMS.

    (a) Grants.--The Secretary may award grants to State collaboratives 
to support the development of full-service community school programs in 
accordance with this section.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Grants awarded under this section shall be used 
only for the following:
            (1) Developing a State comprehensive results and indicators 
        framework to implement full-service community schools, 
        consistent with performance goals described in section 
        4(c)(4)(E).
            (2) Planning, coordinating, and expanding the development 
        of full-service community schools in the State, particularly 
        schools in high-poverty local educational agencies, including 
        high-poverty rural local educational agencies.
            (3) Providing technical assistance and training for full-
        service community schools, including professional development 
        for personnel and creation of data collection and evaluation 
        systems.
            (4) Collecting, evaluating, and reporting data about the 
        progress of full-service community schools.
            (5) Evaluating the impact of State and Federal policies and 
        guidelines on the ability of eligible entities (as defined in 
        section 4(i)) to integrate Federal and State programs at full-
        service community schools, and taking action to make necessary 
        changes.
    (c) Application.--To seek a grant under this section, a State 
collaborative shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time 
and in such manner as the Secretary may require. The Secretary shall 
require that each such application include the following:
            (1) A memorandum of understanding among all governmental 
        agencies and nonprofit organizations that will participate as 
        members of the State collaborative.
            (2) A description of the expertise of each member of the 
        State collaborative--
                    (A) in coordinating Federal and State programs 
                across multiple agencies;
                    (B) in working with and developing the capacity of 
                full-service community schools; and
                    (C) in working with high-poverty schools or rural 
                schools and local educational agencies.
            (3) A comprehensive plan describing how the grant will be 
        used to plan, coordinate, and expand the delivery of services 
        at full-service community schools.
            (4) A comprehensive accountability plan that will be used 
        to demonstrate effectiveness, including the measurable 
        performance goals of the program and performance measures to 
        monitor progress and assess services' impact on students and 
        families and academic achievement.
            (5) An explanation of how the State collaborative will work 
        to ensure State policies and guidelines can support the 
        development of full-service community schools, as well as 
        provide technical assistance and training, including 
        professional development, for full-service community schools.
            (6) An explanation of how the State will collect and 
        evaluate information on full-service community schools.
    (d) Grant Period.--Each grant awarded under this section shall be 
for a period of 5 years.
    (e) Minimum Amount.--The Secretary may not award a grant to a State 
collaborative under this section in an amount that is less than 
$500,000 for each year of the 5-year grant period.
    (f) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``State'' includes the several States, the 
        District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, 
        Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and any other territory 
        or possession of the United States; and
            (2) the term ``State collaborative'' means a collaborative 
        of a State educational agency and not less than 2 other 
        governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations that provide 
        services to children and families.

SEC. 6. ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established an advisory 
committee to be known as the ``Full-Service Community Schools Advisory 
Committee'' (in this section referred to as the ``Advisory 
Committee'').
    (b) Duties.--Subject to subsection (c), the Advisory Committee 
shall--
            (1) consult with the Secretary on the development and 
        implementation of programs under this Act;
            (2) identify strategies to improve the coordination of 
        Federal programs in support of full-service community schools; 
        and
            (3) issue an annual report to the Congress on efforts under 
        this Act, including a description of--
                    (A) the results of local and national evaluations 
                of such efforts; and
                    (B) the scope of services being coordinated under 
                this Act.
    (c) Consultation.--In carrying out its duties under this section, 
the Advisory Committee shall consult annually with eligible entities 
awarded grants under section 4, State collaboratives awarded grants 
under section 5, and other entities with expertise in operating full-
service community schools.
    (d) Members.--The Advisory Committee shall consist of 5 members as 
follows:
            (1) The Secretary of Education (or the Secretary's 
        delegate).
            (2) The Attorney General of the United States (or the 
        Attorney General's delegate).
            (3) The Secretary of Agriculture (or the Secretary's 
        delegate).
            (4) The Secretary of Health and Human Services (or the 
        Secretary's delegate).
            (5) The Secretary of Labor (or the Secretary's delegate).

SEC. 7. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Technical Assistance.--The Secretary, directly or through 
grants, shall provide such technical assistance as may be appropriate 
to accomplish the purposes of this Act.
    (b) Evaluations by Secretary.--The Secretary shall conduct 
evaluations on the effectiveness of grants under sections 4 and 5 in 
achieving the purposes of this Act.
    (c) Evaluations by Grantees.--The Secretary shall require each 
recipient of a grant under this Act--
            (1) to conduct periodic evaluations of the progress 
        achieved with the grant toward achieving the purposes of this 
        Act;
            (2) to use such evaluations to refine and improve 
        activities conducted with the grant and the performance 
        measures for such activities; and
            (3) to make the results of such evaluations publicly 
        available, including by providing public notice of such 
        availability.
    (d) Construction Clause.--Nothing in this Act shall be construed to 
alter or otherwise affect the rights, remedies, and procedures afforded 
school or school district employees under Federal, State, or local laws 
(including applicable regulations or court orders) or under the terms 
of collective bargaining agreements, memoranda of understanding, or 
other agreements between such employees and their employers.
    (e) Supplement, Not Supplant.--Funds made available to a grantee 
under this Act may be used only to supplement, and not supplant, any 
other Federal, State, or local funds that would otherwise be available 
to carry out the activities assisted under this Act.
    (f) Matching Funds.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall require each recipient 
        of a grant under this Act to provide matching funds from non-
        Federal sources in an amount determined under paragraph (2).
            (2) Determination of amount of match.--
                    (A) Sliding scale.--Subject to subparagraph (B), 
                the Secretary shall determine the amount of matching 
                funds to be required of a grantee under this subsection 
                based on a sliding fee scale that takes into account--
                            (i) the relative poverty of the population 
                        to be targeted by the grantee; and
                            (ii) the ability of the grantee to obtain 
                        such matching funds.
                    (B) Maximum amount.--The Secretary may not require 
                any grantee under this section to provide matching 
                funds in an amount that exceeds the amount of the grant 
                award.
            (3) In-kind contributions.--The Secretary shall permit 
        grantees under this section to match funds in whole or in part 
        with in-kind contributions.
            (4) Consideration.--Notwithstanding this subsection, the 
        Secretary shall not consider an applicant's ability to match 
        funds when determining which applicants will receive grants 
        under this Act.
    (g) Special Rule.--Entities receiving funds under this Act shall 
comply with all existing Federal statutes that prohibit discrimination.

SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated to carry 
out this Act such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 
2015 through 2019.
    (b) Allocation.--Of the amounts appropriated to carry out this Act 
for each fiscal year--
            (1) 85 percent shall be for section 4, and of the funds 
        allocated for new grants under such section, at least 10 
        percent shall be made available for local educational agencies 
        that satisfy the requirements of--
                    (A) subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 6211(b)(1) 
                of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
                (20 U.S.C. 7345(b)(1)); or
                    (B) subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 6221(b)(1) 
                of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
                (20 U.S.C. 7351(b)(1));
            (2) 10 percent shall be for section 5; and
            (3) 5 percent shall be for subsections (a) and (b) of 
        section 7, of which not less than $500,000 shall be for 
        technical assistance under section 7(a).
                                 <all>
