
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 5196 Introduced in House (IH)]

113th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5196

To reduce waste and implement cost savings and revenue enhancement for 
                        the Federal Government.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 24, 2014

Mr. Coffman (for himself and Ms. Sinema) introduced the following bill; 
which was referred to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, 
  and in addition to the Committees on Energy and Commerce, Ways and 
 Means, Foreign Affairs, Financial Services, House Administration, and 
 Rules, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in 
   each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To reduce waste and implement cost savings and revenue enhancement for 
                        the Federal Government.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Unified Savings 
and Accountability Act'' or the ``USA Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I--PROVISIONS RELATING TO FEDERAL PROPERTY, FEDERAL CONTRACTS AND 
                         INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

    Subtitle A--Amendments and Other Provisions Relating to Federal 
        Property, Federal Contracts, and Information Technology

Sec. 101. Promotion of competition in Federal contracting.
Sec. 102. Promotion of strategic sourcing in Federal contracting.
Sec. 103. Avoiding duplicative information technology investments.
Sec. 104. Strengthening oversight of information technology 
                            investments.
Sec. 105. Strengthening oversight of information technology operations.
Sec. 106. Promotion of reverse auctions in Federal contracting.
Sec. 107. Creation of long-term strategy for targeted ownership 
                            investments to replace some high-value 
                            leases.
                 Subtitle B--Data Center Consolidation

Sec. 111. Purpose.
Sec. 112. Definitions.
Sec. 113. Federal Data Center Optimization Initiative.
Sec. 114. Performance requirements related to data center 
                            consolidation.
Sec. 115. Cost savings related to data center optimization.
Sec. 116. Reporting requirements to Congress and the Federal Chief 
                            Information Officer.
Sec. 117. Reduction and consolidation of data centers.
                        TITLE II--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 201. Report on implementation of certain Medicare and Medicaid 
                            fraud detection and program integrity 
                            provisions.
Sec. 202. Revocation or denial of passport and passport card in case of 
                            certain tax delinquencies.
Sec. 203. Prohibition on non-cost-effective minting and printing of 
                            coins and currency.
Sec. 204. Restrictions on printing and distribution of paper copies of 
                            Congressional documents.
Sec. 205. Replacing the $1 note with the $1 coin.
Sec. 206. Enhancing the Internal Revenue Service's online services.
Sec. 207. Improving foreclosure loss mitigation efforts for mortgages 
                            made, insured, or guaranteed by Federal 
                            agencies.

TITLE I--PROVISIONS RELATING TO FEDERAL PROPERTY, FEDERAL CONTRACTS AND 
                         INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

    Subtitle A--Amendments and Other Provisions Relating to Federal 
        Property, Federal Contracts, and Information Technology

SEC. 101. PROMOTION OF COMPETITION IN FEDERAL CONTRACTING.

    (a) Office of Federal Procurement Policy.--Not later than six 
months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator for 
Federal Procurement Policy shall issue guidance to Federal agencies to 
reinvigorate the role of the competition advocate, consistent with the 
recommendations of the Government Accountability Office in its report 
GAO-10-833 (July 26, 2010).
    (b) Elements of Guidance.--The guidance issued pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall include key factors agencies should consider in 
appointing and utilizing competition advocates, such as placement 
within the organization, skill set, and potential methods to 
effectively carry out their duties, and shall direct agencies to 
require their competition advocates to actively involve program offices 
in highlighting opportunities to increase competition.

SEC. 102. PROMOTION OF STRATEGIC SOURCING IN FEDERAL CONTRACTING.

    (a) Savings Goals.--Not later than six months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and for 4 years annually thereafter, the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall issue Government-
wide savings goals for the strategic sourcing of goods and services by 
executive agencies required to designate or appoint a Chief Financial 
Officer as set forth in section 901 of title 31, United States Code. 
The Director may issue goals required by this section that are 
customized to individual agencies or sourcing efforts.
    (b) Matters Covered.--In complying with subsection (a), the 
Director shall provide at a minimum--
            (1) guidance to executive agencies on calculating savings 
        generated from strategic sourcing efforts; and
            (2) standards to measure progress towards meeting savings 
        goals established by subsection (a).
    (c) Report.--Not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Director shall submit to Congress a report on the extent 
of savings realized through the strategic sourcing of goods and 
services by executive agencies during the period Government-wide 
savings goals are required to be issued pursuant to subsection (a).

SEC. 103. AVOIDING DUPLICATIVE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENTS.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to improve 
transparency in order to ensure that agencies avoid making duplicative 
information technology investments.
    (b) Reporting Potential Duplication.--
            (1) Responsibility of agency chief information officers.--
        Each agency chief information officer shall utilize existing or 
        newly developed transparency mechanisms to report to the 
        Director of the Office of Management and Budget, not later than 
        six months after the date of enactment of this Act and at least 
        annually thereafter, on the results of the agency's efforts to 
        identify and eliminate, where appropriate, each potentially 
        duplicative information technology investment.
            (2) Functions of the director.--Not later than 90 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the 
        Office of Management and Budget shall issue a policy requiring 
        consistency among all agencies in identifying information 
        technology investments in any required reporting, and such 
        investments shall include applicable research and development 
        projects and mission-essential systems.

SEC. 104. STRENGTHENING OVERSIGHT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
              INVESTMENTS.

    Section 11303(b) of title 40, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph (5):
            ``(5) Analyses of investments in operations and 
        maintenance.--The Director shall require each executive agency 
        to develop a policy consistent with OMB guidance for performing 
        analysis on each operational/steady state information 
        technology investment to measure how well the investment is 
        achieving expected cost, schedule, performance, and other 
        goals, and to determine whether the investment provides the 
        most cost effective way of delivering business value. The 
        agencies shall conduct these operational analyses on a yearly 
        basis and shall report the results to the Director and through 
        existing or newly developed transparency mechanisms.''.

SEC. 105. STRENGTHENING OVERSIGHT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OPERATIONS.

    (a) Improvement of PortfolioStat Implementation.--Not later than 
six months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall carry out the following, 
consistent with the recommendations of the Government Accountability 
Office in its report GAO-14-343SP (April 2014):
            (1) Issue guidance for the Secretaries of Agriculture, 
        Commerce, Defense, Housing and Urban Development, the Interior, 
        and Labor, and the agency heads of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Office of Personnel 
        Management, Small Business Administration, Social Security 
        Administration, and U.S. Agency for International Development, 
        to complete their commodity IT baselines (as part of 
        PortfolioStat).
            (2) Require the Secretaries of Defense, Housing and Urban 
        Development, the Interior, Labor, State, Transportation, and 
        Veterans Affairs, and the agency heads of the Environmental 
        Protection Agency, General Services Administration, National 
        Aeronautics and Space Administration, Office of Personnel 
        Management, Social Security Administration, and U.S. Agency for 
        International Development, to report quarterly to the Director 
        on each department's or agency's progress in the migration of 
        two commodity IT areas (enterprise IT systems and IT 
        infrastructure) to a shared service.
    (b) Required Actions by Federal Chief Information Officer.--
            (1) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
        shall direct the Federal Chief Information Officer to take the 
        following actions, consistent with the recommendations of the 
        Government Accountability Office in its report GAO-14-343SP 
        (April 2014) and as part of integrated data collection 
        quarterly reporting:
                    (A) Require that agencies--
                            (i) describe the actions that have been 
                        taken to ensure the completeness of their 
                        commodity IT baseline information; and
                            (ii) identify any limitation in such 
                        information.
                    (B) Require agencies to report on the progress of 
                their efforts to migrate two commodity IT areas 
                (enterprise IT systems and IT infrastructure) to a 
                shared service.
                    (C) Require agencies to fully disclose any 
                limitations their chief information officers might have 
                in exercising the authorities and responsibilities 
                provided by law and the 2013 PortfolioStat guidance of 
                the Office of Management and Budget.
                    (D) Require agencies to disclose the limitations of 
                any data reported (or disclose the parameters and 
                assumptions of these data) on the agencies' data 
                consolidation efforts and associated cost savings and 
                cost avoidance.
                    (E) Require agencies to improve transparency of and 
                accountability for PortfolioStat by publicly disclosing 
                planned and actual data consolidation efforts and 
                related cost savings.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Portfoliostat.--The term ``PortfolioStat'' refers to 
        the initiative launched by the Office of Management and budget 
        in March 2012 to maximize the return on information technology 
        investments across the Federal Government.
            (2) IT.--The term ``IT'' means information technology.

SEC. 106. PROMOTION OF REVERSE AUCTIONS IN FEDERAL CONTRACTING.

    (a) Revision of FAR.--Not later than six months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulation shall be 
revised to address reverse auctions by Federal agencies, including how 
and when they should be used, the roles and responsibilities of 
contracting officers, and what agencies should do if there is no 
interactive bidding during an auction.
    (b) Guidance on Reverse Auctions.--Not later than six months after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of Office of Management 
and Budget shall, consistent with the recommendations of the Government 
Accountability Office on reverse auctions in its report GAO-14-343SP 
(April 2014), issue Government-wide guidance--
            (1) advising agencies to collect and analyze data on the 
        level of interactive bidding and, where applicable, fees paid, 
        to determine the cost effectiveness of using reverse auctions 
        in the procurement of goods or services; and
            (2) on best practices to maximize competition and savings 
        in the use of reverse auctions.

SEC. 107. CREATION OF LONG-TERM STRATEGY FOR TARGETED OWNERSHIP 
              INVESTMENTS TO REPLACE SOME HIGH-VALUE LEASES.

    Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of the 
Act, the Administrator of General Services shall take the following 
actions pursuant to the recommendations of the Government 
Accountability Office in its report GAO-14-343SP:
            (1) Develop and use criteria to rank and prioritize 
        potential long-term ownership solutions to current high-value 
        leases among other capital investments and use this ranking to 
        create long-term cross agency strategy that facilitates 
        consideration of targeted investments in ownership.
            (2) Report to the appropriate congressional committees any 
        leases above the prospectus threshold that did not follow the 
        congressional prospectus process and include in the lease 
        prospectus a description of the length of time that an agency 
        estimates it will need the space, an historical account of how 
        long the agency will need to make the leased space meet its 
        mission. For the spaces for which an agency has a long-term 
        projected need, also include an appropriate form of cost-to-
        lease versus cost-to-own alternatives analysis to facilitate 
        the evaluation.

                 Subtitle B--Data Center Consolidation

SEC. 111. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this subtitle is to optimize Federal data center 
usage and efficiency.

SEC. 112. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Federal data center optimization initiative.--The term 
        ``Federal Data Center Optimization Initiative'' or the 
        ``Initiative'' means the initiative developed and implemented 
        by the Director, through the Federal Chief Information Officer, 
        as required under section 113.
            (2) Covered agency.--The term ``covered agency'' means any 
        agency included in the Federal Data Center Optimization 
        Initiative.
            (3) Federal chief information officer.--The term ``Federal 
        Chief Information Officer'' means the Administrator of the 
        Office of Electronic Government established under section 3602 
        of title 44, United States Code.
            (4) Data center.--The term ``data center'' means a closet, 
        room, floor, or building for the storage, management, and 
        dissemination of data and information, as defined by the 
        Federal Chief Information Officer under guidance issued 
        pursuant to this section.
            (5) Federal data center.--The term ``Federal data center'' 
        means any data center of a covered agency used or operated by a 
        covered agency, by a contractor of a covered agency, or by 
        another organization on behalf of a covered agency.
            (6) Server utilization.--The term ``server utilization'' 
        refers to the activity level of a server relative to its 
        maximum activity level, expressed as a percentage.
            (7) Power usage effectiveness.--The term ``power usage 
        effectiveness'' means the ratio obtained by dividing the total 
        amount of electricity and other power consumed in running a 
        data center by the power consumed by the information and 
        communications technology in the data center.

SEC. 113. FEDERAL DATA CENTER OPTIMIZATION INITIATIVE.

    (a) Requirement for Initiative.--The Federal Chief Information 
Officer, in consultation with the chief information officers of covered 
agencies, shall develop and implement an initiative, to be known as the 
Federal Data Center Optimization Initiative, to optimize the usage and 
efficiency of Federal data centers by meeting the requirements of this 
Act and taking additional measures, as appropriate.
    (b) Requirement for Plan.--Within 6 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Federal Chief Information Officer, in 
consultation with the chief information officers of covered agencies, 
shall develop and submit to Congress a plan for implementation of the 
Initiative required by subsection (a) by each covered agency. In 
developing the plan, the Federal Chief Information Officer shall take 
into account the findings and recommendations of the Comptroller 
General review required by section 115(e).
    (c) Matters Covered.--The plan shall include--
            (1) descriptions of how covered agencies will use 
        reductions in floor space, energy use, infrastructure, 
        equipment, applications, personnel, increases in 
        multiorganizational use, and other appropriate methods to meet 
        the requirements of the initiative; and
            (2) appropriate consideration of shifting federally owned 
        data centers to commercially owned data centers.

SEC. 114. PERFORMANCE REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO DATA CENTER 
              CONSOLIDATION.

    (a) Server Utilization.--Each covered agency may use the following 
methods to achieve the maximum server utilization possible as 
determined by the Federal Chief Information Officer:
            (1) The closing of existing data centers that lack adequate 
        server utilization, as determined by the Federal Chief 
        Information Officer. If the agency fails to close such data 
        centers, the agency shall provide a detailed explanation as to 
        why this data center should remain in use as part of the 
        submitted plan. The Federal Chief Information Officer shall 
        include an assessment of the agency explanation in the annual 
        report to Congress.
            (2) The consolidation of services within existing data 
        centers to increase server utilization rates.
            (3) Any other method that the Federal Chief Information 
        Officer, in consultation with the chief information officers of 
        covered agencies, determines necessary to optimize server 
        utilization.
    (b) Power Usage Effectiveness.--Each covered agency may use the 
following methods to achieve the maximum energy efficiency possible as 
determined by the Federal Chief Information Officer:
            (1) The use of the measurement of power usage effectiveness 
        to calculate data center energy efficiency.
            (2) The use of power meters in data centers to frequently 
        measure power consumption over time.
            (3) The establishment of power usage effectiveness goals 
        for each data center.
            (4) The adoption of best practices for managing--
                    (A) temperature and airflow in data centers; and
                    (B) power supply efficiency.
            (5) The implementation of any other method that the Federal 
        Chief Information Officer, in consultation with the Chief 
        Information Officers of covered agencies, determines necessary 
        to optimize data center energy efficiency.

SEC. 115. COST SAVINGS RELATED TO DATA CENTER OPTIMIZATION.

    (a) Requirement To Track Costs.--
            (1) In general.--Each covered agency shall track costs 
        resulting from implementation of the Federal Data Center 
        Optimization Initiative within the agency and submit a report 
        on those costs annually to the Federal Chief Information 
        Officer. Covered agencies shall determine the net costs from 
        data consolidation on an annual basis.
            (2) Factors.--In calculating net costs each year under 
        paragraph (1), a covered agency shall use the following 
        factors:
                    (A) Energy costs.
                    (B) Personnel costs.
                    (C) Real estate costs.
                    (D) Capital expense costs.
                    (E) Operating system, database, and other software 
                license expense costs.
                    (F) Other appropriate costs, as determined by the 
                agency in consultation with the Federal Chief 
                Information Officer.
    (b) Requirement To Track Savings.--
            (1) In general.--Each covered agency shall track savings 
        resulting from implementation of the Federal Data Center 
        Optimization Initiative within the agency and submit a report 
        on those savings annually to the Federal Chief Information 
        Officer. Covered agencies shall determine the net savings from 
        data consolidation on an annual basis.
            (2) Factors.--In calculating net savings each year under 
        paragraph (1), a covered agency shall use the following 
        factors:
                    (A) Energy savings.
                    (B) Personnel savings.
                    (C) Real estate savings.
                    (D) Capital expense savings.
                    (E) Operating system, database, and other software 
                license expense savings.
                    (F) Other appropriate savings, as determined by the 
                agency in consultation with the Federal Chief 
                Information Officer.
    (c) Requirement To Use Cost-Effective Measures.--Covered agencies 
shall use the most cost-effective measures to implement the Federal 
Data Center Optimization Initiative.
    (d) Use of Savings.--Any savings resulting from implementation of 
the Federal Data Center Optimization Initiative within a covered agency 
shall be used for the following purposes:
            (1) To offset the costs of implementing the Initiative 
        within the agency.
            (2) To further enhance information technology capabilities 
        and services within the agency.
    (e) Government Accountability Office Review.--Not later than 3 
months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall examine methods for calculating 
savings from the Initiative and using them for the purposes identified 
in subsection (d), including establishment and use of a special 
revolving fund that supports data centers and server optimization, and 
shall submit to the Federal Chief Information Officer and Congress a 
report on the Comptroller General's findings and recommendations.

SEC. 116. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS TO CONGRESS AND THE FEDERAL CHIEF 
              INFORMATION OFFICER.

    (a) Agency Requirement To Report to CIO.--Each year, each covered 
agency shall submit to the Federal Chief Information Officer a report 
on the implementation of the Federal Data Center Optimization 
Initiative, including savings resulting from such implementation. The 
report shall include an update of the agency's plan for implementing 
the Initiative.
    (b) Federal Chief Information Officer Requirement To Report to 
Congress.--Each year, the Federal Chief Information Officer shall 
submit to the relevant congressional committees a report that assesses 
agency progress in carrying out the Federal Data Center Optimization 
Initiative and updates the plan under section 113. The report may be 
included as part of the annual report required under section 3606 of 
title 44, United States Code.

SEC. 117. REDUCTION AND CONSOLIDATION OF DATA CENTERS.

    (a) OMB Recommendation.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget, in consultation with the Administrator of General Services and 
the heads of other executive agencies, shall issue recommendations for 
reducing or consolidating the number of Federal data centers in 
existence as of the date of the enactment of this Act--
            (1) by at least 40 percent not later than September 30, 
        2018; and
            (2) by at least 80 percent not later than September 30, 
        2023.
    (b) Reduction of Data Centers.--Not later than 6 months after the 
issuance of recommendations by the Director of the Office of Management 
and Budget under subsection (a), the head of each executive agency 
shall implement the recommendations by reducing the number of Federal 
data centers in accordance with such recommendations.

                        TITLE II--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 201. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF CERTAIN MEDICARE AND MEDICAID 
              FRAUD DETECTION AND PROGRAM INTEGRITY PROVISIONS.

    Section 1128J(a)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-
7k(a)(1)(A)) is amended by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(iii) Report on integrated data 
                        repository and one program integrity system.--
                        Not later than six months after the date of 
                        enactment of this clause, the Secretary shall 
                        submit to the appropriate congressional 
                        committees a report on the following:
                                    ``(I) Integrated data repository.--
                                Efforts to finalize plans and schedules 
                                for fully implementing and expanding 
                                the use of the Integrated Data 
                                Repository, including actions taken to 
                                finalize, implement, and manage plans 
                                for incorporating data into the 
                                Integrated Data Repository and actions 
                                taken to define measurable financial 
                                benefits expected from the 
                                implementation of the Integrated Data 
                                Repository.
                                    ``(II) One program integrity 
                                system.--Actions taken to plan, 
                                schedule, and conduct training on the 
                                One Program Integrity System, a Web-
                                based portal and suite of software 
                                tools used to analyze and extract data 
                                from the Integrated Data Repository, 
                                and actions taken to define measurable 
                                financial benefits expected from the 
                                use of the One Program Integrity 
                                System.''.

SEC. 202. REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF PASSPORT AND PASSPORT CARD IN CASE OF 
              CERTAIN TAX DELINQUENCIES.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter D of chapter 75 of the Internal Revenue 
Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 7345. REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF PASSPORT AND PASSPORT CARD IN CASE 
              OF CERTAIN TAX DELINQUENCIES.

    ``(a) In General.--If the Secretary receives certification by the 
Commissioner of Internal Revenue that any individual has a seriously 
delinquent tax debt in an amount in excess of $50,000, the Secretary 
shall transmit such certification to the Secretary of State for action 
with respect to denial, revocation, or limitation of a passport or 
passport card pursuant to section 4 of the Act entitled `An Act to 
regulate the issue and validity of passports, and for other purposes', 
approved July 3, 1926 (22 U.S.C. 211a et seq.), commonly known as the 
`Passport Act of 1926'.
    ``(b) Seriously Delinquent Tax Debt.--For purposes of this section, 
the term `seriously delinquent tax debt' means an outstanding debt 
under this title for which a notice of lien has been filed in public 
records pursuant to section 6323 or a notice of levy has been filed 
pursuant to section 6331, except that such term does not include--
            ``(1) a debt that is being paid in a timely manner pursuant 
        to an agreement under section 6159 or 7122, and
            ``(2) a debt with respect to which collection is suspended 
        because a collection due process hearing under section 6330, or 
        relief under subsection (b), (c), or (f) of section 6015, is 
        requested or pending.
    ``(c) Adjustment for Inflation.--In the case of a calendar year 
beginning after 2015, the dollar amount in subsection (a) shall be 
increased by an amount equal to--
            ``(1) such dollar amount, multiplied by--
            ``(2) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under 
        section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year, determined by 
        substituting `calendar year 2014' for `calendar year 1992' in 
        subparagraph (B) thereof. If any amount as adjusted under the 
        preceding sentence is not a multiple of $1,000, such amount 
        shall be rounded to the next highest multiple of $1,000.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for subchapter D of 
chapter 75 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at 
the end the following new item:

``Sec. 7345. Revocation or denial of passport and passport card in case 
                            of certain tax delinquencies.''.
    (c) Authority for Information Sharing.--
            (1) In general.--Subsection (l) of section 6103 of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end 
        the following new paragraph:
            ``(23) Disclosure of return information to department of 
        state for purposes of passport and passport card revocation 
        under section 7345.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall, upon 
                receiving a certification described in section 7345, 
                disclose to the Secretary of State return information 
                with respect to a taxpayer who has a seriously 
                delinquent tax debt described in such section. Such 
                return information shall be limited to--
                            ``(i) the taxpayer identity information 
                        with respect to such taxpayer, and
                            ``(ii) the amount of such seriously 
                        delinquent tax debt.
                    ``(B) Restriction on disclosure.--Return 
                information disclosed under subparagraph (A) may be 
                used by officers and employees of the Department of 
                State for the purposes of, and to the extent necessary 
                in, carrying out the requirements of section 4 of the 
                Act entitled `An Act to regulate the issue and validity 
                of passports, and for other purposes', approved July 3, 
                1926 (22 U.S.C. 211a et seq.), commonly known as the 
                `Passport Act of 1926'.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Paragraph (4) of section 6103(p) 
        of such Code is amended by striking ``or (22)'' each place it 
        appears in subparagraph (F)(ii) and in the matter preceding 
        subparagraph (A) and inserting ``(22), or (23)''.
    (d) Revocation Authorization.--The Act entitled ``An Act to 
regulate the issue and validity of passports, and for other 
purposes.'', approved July 3, 1926 (22 U.S.C. 211a et seq.), commonly 
known as the ``Passport Act of 1926'', is amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``SEC. 4. AUTHORITY TO DENY OR REVOKE PASSPORT AND PASSPORT CARD.

    ``(a) Ineligibility.--
            ``(1) Issuance.--Except as provided under subsection (b), 
        upon receiving a certification described in section 7345 of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 from the Secretary of the 
        Treasury, the Secretary of State may not issue a passport or 
        passport card to any individual who has a seriously delinquent 
        tax debt described in such section.
            ``(2) Revocation.--The Secretary of State shall revoke a 
        passport or passport card previously issued to any individual 
        described in paragraph (1).
    ``(b) Exceptions.--
            ``(1) Emergency and humanitarian situations.--
        Notwithstanding subsection (a), the Secretary of State may 
        issue a passport or passport card, in emergency circumstances 
        or for humanitarian reasons, to an individual described in 
        paragraph (1) of such subsection.
            ``(2) Limitation for return to united states.--
        Notwithstanding subsection (a)(2), the Secretary of State, 
        before revocation, may--
                    ``(A) limit a previously issued passport or 
                passport card only for return travel to the United 
                States; or
                    ``(B) issue a limited passport or passport card 
                that only permits return travel to the United 
                States.''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2015.

SEC. 203. PROHIBITION ON NON-COST-EFFECTIVE MINTING AND PRINTING OF 
              COINS AND CURRENCY.

    (a) Prohibition With Respect to Coins.--Section 5111 of title 31, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Prohibition on Certain Minting.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of this subchapter, after the end of the 4-year period 
following the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary 
may not mint or issue any circulating coin that costs more to produce 
than the denomination of the coin (including labor, materials, dies, 
use of machinery, overhead expenses, marketing, and shipping).''.
    (b) Prohibition With Respect to Currency.--Section 5114(a) of title 
31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Prohibition on certain printing.--Notwithstanding any 
        other provision of this subchapter, after the end of the 4-year 
        period following the date of the enactment of this paragraph, 
        the Secretary may not engrave or print any United States 
        currency that costs more to produce than the denomination of 
        the currency (including labor, materials, dies, use of 
        machinery, overhead expenses, marketing, and shipping).''.

SEC. 204. RESTRICTIONS ON PRINTING AND DISTRIBUTION OF PAPER COPIES OF 
              CONGRESSIONAL DOCUMENTS.

    (a) Printing and Distribution of Documents by Public Printer.--
            (1) Restrictions.--Chapter 7 of title 44, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 742. Restrictions on printing and distribution of paper copies
    ``(a) Mandatory Use of Electronic Format for Distribution of 
Congressional Documents.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
chapter, the Public Printer shall make any document of the House of 
Representatives or Senate which is subject to any of the provisions of 
this chapter available only in an electronic format which is accessible 
through the Internet, and may not print or distribute a printed copy of 
the document except as provided in subsection (b).
    ``(b) Permitting Printing and Distribution of Printed Copies Upon 
Request.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), at the request of any person 
to whom the Public Printer would have been required to provide a 
printed copy of a document under this chapter had subsection (a) not 
been in effect, the Public Printer may print and distribute a copy of a 
document or report for the use of that person, except that--
            ``(1) the number of printed copies the Public Printer may 
        provide to the person may not exceed the number of printed 
        copies the Public Printer would have provided to the person had 
        subsection (a) not been in effect; and
            ``(2) the Public Printer may print and distribute copies to 
        the person only upon payment by the person of the costs of 
        printing and distributing the copies, except that this 
        paragraph shall not apply to an office of the House of 
        Representatives or Senate (including the office of a Member of 
        Congress).''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections of chapter 7 
        of such title is amended by adding at the end following new 
        item:

``742. Restrictions on printing and distribution of paper copies.''.
    (b) Provision of Documents in Electronic Format Deemed To Meet 
Requirements of House and Senate Rules Regarding Distribution of 
Printed Copies.--
            (1) In general.--If any rule or regulation of the House of 
        Representatives or Senate requires a Member or committee to 
        provide printed copies of any document (including any bill or 
        resolution) for the use of the House or Senate or for the use 
        of any office of the House or Senate, the Member or committee 
        shall be considered to have met the requirement of the rule or 
        regulation if the Member or committee makes the document 
        available to the recipient in an electronic format.
            (2) Exercise of rulemaking authority of senate and house.--
        This subsection is enacted by Congress--
                    (A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the 
                Senate and House of Representatives, respectively, and 
                as such it is deemed a part of the rules of each House, 
                respectively, and it supersedes other rules only to the 
                extent that it is inconsistent with such rules; and
                    (B) with full recognition of the constitutional 
                right of either House to change the rules (so far as 
                relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, 
                in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the 
                case of any other rule of that House.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall apply with respect to documents produced on or after 
January 1, 2015.

SEC. 205. REPLACING THE $1 NOTE WITH THE $1 COIN.

    (a) Duties of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System.--
            (1) Coin sequestration.--
                    (A) In general.--Within six months of the date of 
                enactment of this Act, the Board of Governors of the 
                Federal Reserve System shall sequester all $1 coins 
                bearing the design common to those $1 coins minted and 
                issued from 1979-1981 and again in 1999.
                    (B) Treatment of coins.--Coins sequestered pursuant 
                to subparagraph (A) shall not be returned to ordinary 
                circulation or otherwise released from storage 
                controlled by the Federal Reserve System or an agent of 
                the Federal Reserve System.
                    (C) Exception for certain uses.--Notwithstanding 
                subparagraph (B), coins sequestered pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) may be released, at face value and in 
                bulk quantities--
                            (i) to dealers in collectible coins; and
                            (ii) to countries that have adopted the 
                        United States dollar as their base unit of 
                        exchange.
                    (D) Obsolete coins.--At the end of the 1-year 
                period beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
                Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall declare all 
                coins described under subparagraph (A) to be obsolete, 
                and such coins--
                            (i) shall be treated in the same manner as 
                        all other obsolete United States coins; and
                            (ii) to the extent such coins remain in 
                        general circulation, shall remain legal tender.
            (2) Quarterly report on $1 coins.--The Board of Governors 
        of the Federal Reserve System shall issue quarterly reports to 
        the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
        Urban Affairs of the Senate on--
                    (A) the number of coins sequestered pursuant to 
                paragraph (1)(A);
                    (B) the number of coins described in paragraph 
                (1)(A) that remain in general circulation; and
                    (C) efforts that have been made to reduce the 
                number of coins described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) 
                to zero.
            (3) Improvement of circulation.--The Board of Governors of 
        the Federal Reserve System shall--
                    (A) undertake efforts to improve the circulation 
                and remove barriers to the circulation of the $1 coin, 
                other than those coins described under paragraph 
                (1)(A);
                    (B) issue a quarterly report to the Committee on 
                Financial Services of the House of Representatives and 
                the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of 
                the Senate on--
                            (i) what efforts have been made to improve 
                        the circulation of $1 coins and what efforts 
                        are being planned to improve the circulation of 
                        $1 coins;
                            (ii) the success of such efforts, including 
                        an analysis of such coins held in storage owned 
                        or controlled by the Federal Reserve System and 
                        the number of such coins in circulation;
                            (iii) barriers to the circulation of such 
                        coins, including the availability of such coins 
                        in quantities unmixed with the $1 coins 
                        described in paragraph (1)(A); and
                            (iv) the extent to which the Federal 
                        Reserve System and any agents of the Federal 
                        Reserve System are unable to meet end-user 
                        requests for delivery of unmixed quantities of 
                        such coins in whatever form such end user 
                        requires, including rolls, disposable tubes, or 
                        volume bags of such coins.
            (4) Outreach and education.--The Board of Governors of the 
        Federal Reserve System shall continuously conduct outreach and 
        education programs aimed at helping each business using or 
        accepting cash to choose the best mix of $1 coins and banknotes 
        to facilitate transactions and reduce costs of transactions and 
        of ``cashing out'' at the end of a transaction period.
            (5) Use of $1 coins by foreign countries.--The Board of 
        Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall work with the 
        Departments of State and the Treasury to ensure that countries 
        that have adopted the dollar as a base unit of exchange and 
        which place orders with the Federal Reserve System, or through 
        any United States financial institution, for supplies of $1 
        monetary units, are fully briefed before placing each such 
        order on the durability and longevity of $1 coins in high-
        circulation economies when used for transactions of a low 
        dollar value.
    (b) Publicity Requirement.--Section 5112(p)(2) of title 31, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after ``Mint'' the following: 
``and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System''.
    (c) Report on Implementation.--Not later than the end of the 1-year 
period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually 
thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United States and the 
Inspector General of the Federal Reserve System and the Bureau of 
Consumer Financial Protection shall each issue a report to the 
Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate on steps 
being taken by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to 
carry out this Act.
    (d) Clarification With Respect to Seigniorage.--The ninth proviso 
of section 5136 of title 31, United States Code, is amended, by 
inserting after ``miscellaneous receipts'' the following: ``and such 
amount shall be included as an estimated receipt of the Government and 
a receipt of the Government under paragraphs (6) and (7), respectively, 
of section 1105(a) in any budget submitted under such section''.
    (e) Policy Statement.--It is the policy of the United States that 
after $1 coins achieve sufficient market penetration such that 
consumers and retailers are comfortable using $1 coins and are able to 
obtain adequate supplies of $1 coins, $1 coins should replace $1 
Federal Reserve notes as the only $1 monetary unit issued and 
circulated by the Federal Reserve System.
    (f) Deadline for Placing $1 Federal Reserve Notes Into 
Circulation.--Federal Reserve banks may continue to place into 
circulation $1 Federal Reserve notes until the earlier of--
            (1) the date on which the number of $1 coins placed into 
        circulation after the date of the enactment of this Act exceeds 
        600,000,000 annually; or
            (2) the date that is 4 years after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
    (g) Transition Period.--After the date referred to in subsection 
(f), a Federal Reserve bank may not order additional $1 Federal Reserve 
notes but may, for a period of one year, continue to place into 
circulation $1 Federal Reserve notes on hand or those deposited with 
it, except for notes described in subsection (h).
    (h) Removal of Unfit Currency.--After the date referred to in 
subparagraph (f), a Federal Reserve bank shall continue to remove unfit 
currency from circulation, and shall continue to destroy such currency.
    (i) Exception.--Notwithstanding subsections (f) and (g), the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall produce such Federal 
Reserve notes of $1 denomination as the Board determines from time to 
time are appropriate solely to meet the needs of collectors of that 
denomination. Such notes shall be issued by one or more Federal Reserve 
banks in accordance with section 16 of the Federal Reserve Act and sold 
by the Board, in whole or in part, under procedures prescribed by the 
Board.
    (j) No Effect on Legal Tender.--Notwithstanding any other 
subsection of this section, $1 Federal Reserve notes are legal tender 
in the United States for all debts, public and private, public charges, 
taxes, and duties, regardless of the date of printing or issue.

SEC. 206. ENHANCING THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE'S ONLINE SERVICES.

    No later than six months after the date of the enactment of the 
Act, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue shall, pursuant to the 
recommendations of the Government Accountability Office in its report 
GAO-14-343SP (April, 2014):
            (1) Develop a long-term strategy to improve web services 
        provided to taxpayers, in accordance with www.Howto.gov and 
        other Federal guidance outlined in the April 2013 report of the 
        Government Accountability Office GAO-13-279SP.
            (2) Study leading practices of other organizations to 
        understand how web improvement strategies were developed and 
        new services prioritized.
            (3) Develop business cases for all new online services, 
        describing the potential benefits and costs of the project, and 
        use them to prioritize future projects.
            (4) Review risk mitigation plans for interactive tools to 
        ensure all risks are addressed and link investments in security 
        to the long-term plan.

SEC. 207. IMPROVING FORECLOSURE LOSS MITIGATION EFFORTS FOR MORTGAGES 
              MADE, INSURED, OR GUARANTEED BY FEDERAL AGENCIES.

    (a) Periodic Analysis of Loss Mitigation Actions.--Not later than 
the expiration of the 6-month period beginning on the date of the 
enactment of this Act and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Housing 
and Urban Development, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs shall each analyze the effectiveness and long-term 
costs and benefits of the programs, actions, and strategies of the 
applicable agency for avoidance or mitigation of foreclosure losses 
with respect to covered loans and mortgages of the applicable agency, 
which shall include analyses of--
            (1) the re-default rates associated with various types of 
        loss mitigation actions; and
            (2) the impacts that loan and borrower characteristics have 
        on the performance of different loss mitigation actions.
    (b) Re-Evaluation.--Upon completion of each periodic analysis 
conducted pursuant to subsection (a) with respect to covered loans and 
mortgages of an applicable agency, the head of the applicable agency 
shall use the results of the analysis to--
            (1) re-evaluate the programs, actions, and strategies of 
        the agency for avoidance or mitigation of foreclosure losses 
        with respect to covered loans and mortgages; and
            (2) provide additional guidance to servicers of covered 
        loans and mortgages to more effectively target and implement 
        loss mitigation efforts.
    (c) Collection of Information.--Each of the agency heads referred 
to in subsection (a) shall--
            (1) collect such information regarding covered loans and 
        mortgages of the applicable agency as may be necessary to 
        conduct the analysis required under such subsection, including 
        loan level data and information regarding loan performance; or
            (2) require servicers of such loans and mortgages to 
        provide any such information not maintained or collected by the 
        applicable agency.
    (d) Consultation and Coordination.--Each of the agency heads 
referred to in subsection (a) shall consult and coordinate with each 
other in conducting the analyses and re-evaluations required under 
subsection (a) and (b) to ensure the sharing of information and promote 
effective loss mitigation efforts.
    (e) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the following 
definitions shall apply:
            (1) Applicable agency.--The term ``applicable agency'' 
        means--
                    (A) with respect to the Secretary of Housing and 
                Urban Development, the Department of Housing and Urban 
                Development;
                    (B) with respect to the Secretary of Agriculture, 
                the Department of Agriculture; and
                    (C) with respect to the Secretary of Veterans 
                Affairs, the Department of Veterans Affairs.
            (2) Covered loans and mortgages.--The term ``covered loans 
        and mortgages'' means, with respect to an applicable agency, 
        loans for and mortgages on 1- to 4-family homes made, insured, 
        or guaranteed by such applicable agency.
                                 <all>
