
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 629 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 629

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 19, 2014.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4413) to reauthorize the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, to 
better protect futures customers, to provide end users with market certainty, to 
make basic reforms to ensure transparency and accountability at the Commission, 
to help farmers, ranchers, and end users manage risks to help keep consumer 
costs low, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and amendments specified in 
this resolution and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by 
the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Agriculture. After 
general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute 
rule. It shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of 
amendment under the five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute 
consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 113-47. That amendment in the 
nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment to that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except those printed 
in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such 
amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. 
At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall 
rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment 
adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the 
nature of a substitute made in order as original text. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final 
passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
