
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 125 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.Con.Res.125
                                     Agreed to December 16, 2014        

                     One Hundred Thirteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and fourteen


                          Concurrent Resolution

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), 
That when the House adjourns on any legislative day from Friday, 
December 12, 2014, through Wednesday, December 31, 2014, on a motion 
offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader 
or his designee, it stand adjourned until 1 p.m. on Friday, January 2, 
2015, or until the time of any reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this 
concurrent resolution, whichever occurs first; and that when the House 
adjourns on the legislative day of Friday, January 2, 2015, on a motion 
offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader 
or his designee, it stand adjourned sine die, or until the time of any 
reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent resolution, 
whichever occurs first; and that when the Senate recesses or adjourns 
on any day from Friday, December 12, 2014, through Friday, January 2, 
2015, on a motion offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, it stand adjourned sine die, or until 
the time of any reassembly pursuant to section 3 of this concurrent 
resolution, whichever occurs first.
    Sec. 2. (a) The Speaker or his designee, after consultation with 
the Minority Leader of the House, shall notify Members of the House to 
reassemble at such place and time as he may designate if, in his 
opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
    (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the House 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the House shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
    Sec. 3. (a) The Majority Leader of the Senate or his designee, 
after concurrence with the Minority Leader of the Senate, shall notify 
the Members of the Senate to reassemble at such place and time as he 
may designate if, in his opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
    (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the Senate 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the Senate shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
Attest:

                                 Clerk of the House of Representatives.

Attest:

                                               Secretary of the Senate.
