
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H. Res. 373 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 373

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                       October 8, 2013.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 89) making appropriations 
for the salaries and related expenses of certain Federal employees during a 
lapse in funding authority for fiscal year 2014, and for other purposes. All 
points of order against consideration of the joint resolution are waived. The 
joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on any amendment thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 40 minutes of debate 
equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Appropriations; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 3273) to establish a bicameral working group on 
deficit reduction and economic growth. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of 
order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) 40 minutes of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Rules; 
and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3. (a) In the engrossment of H.J. Res. 89, the Clerk shall--
            (1) add the text of H.R. 3273, as passed by the House, as new matter 
        at the end of H.J. Res. 89;
            (2) conform the title of H.J. Res. 89 to reflect the addition of the 
        text of H.R. 3273, as passed by the House, to the engrossment;
            (3) assign appropriate designations to provisions within the 
        engrossment; and
            (4) conform cross-references and provisions for short titles within 
        the engrossment.
    (b) Upon the addition of the text of H.R. 3273, as passed by the House, to 
the engrossment of H.J. Res. 89, H.R. 3273 shall be laid on the table.
    Sec. 4.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 90) making continuing 
appropriations for the Federal Aviation Administration for fiscal year 2014, and 
for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the joint 
resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on 
any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 40 
minutes of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Appropriations; and (2) one motion to 
recommit.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
