
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 3979 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.3979

                     One Hundred Thirteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Friday,
           the third day of January, two thousand and fourteen


                                 An Act


 
To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2015 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
         strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Carl Levin and 
Howard P. `Buck' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015''.
    (b) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
        (1)(A) Senator Carl Levin of Michigan was elected a member of 
    the United States Senate on November 7, 1978, for a full term 
    beginning January 3, 1979. He has served continuously in the Senate 
    since that date, and was appointed as a member of the Committee on 
    Armed Services in January 1979. He has served on the Committee on 
    Armed Services since that date, a period of nearly 36 years.
        (B) A graduate of Detroit Central High School, Senator Levin 
    went on to Swarthmore College, and graduated from Harvard Law 
    School in 1959, gaining admittance to the Michigan bar. He served 
    his State as assistant attorney general and general counsel of the 
    Michigan Civil Rights Commission from 1964-1967, and later served 
    his hometown of Detroit as a member of the Detroit City Council 
    from 1969-1973, and as the council's president from 1974-1977.
        (C) Senator Levin first served as chairman of the Committee on 
    Armed Services of the United States Senate for a period of the 
    107th Congress, and has remained chairman since the 110th Congress 
    began in 2007. He has exercised extraordinary leadership as either 
    the chairman or ranking minority member of the committee since the 
    start of the 105th Congress in 1997.
        (D) Each year, for the past 52 years, the Committee on Armed 
    Services has reliably passed an annual defense authorization act, 
    and this will be the 36th that Senator Levin has had a role in. In 
    his capacity as member, ranking member, and chairman, he has been 
    an advocate for a strong national defense, and has made lasting 
    contributions to the security of our Nation.
        (E) It is altogether fitting and proper that this Act, the last 
    annual authorization act for the national defense that Senator 
    Levin manages in and for the United States Senate as chairman of 
    the Committee on Armed Services, be named in his honor, as provided 
    in subsection (a).
        (2)(A) Representative Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon was elected to 
    the House of Representatives in 1992 to represent California's 25th 
    Congressional District.
        (B) Chairman McKeon was born in Los Angeles and grew up in 
    Tujunga CA. He served a two and a half year mission for the Church 
    of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints and attended Brigham Young 
    University. Prior to his election to Congress, he was a small 
    business owner, and served both on the William S. Hart Union High 
    School District Board of Trustees and as the first mayor of the 
    City of Santa Clarita.
        (C) In the 111th Congress, Chairman McKeon was selected by his 
    peers as the Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Committee 
    and has served as Chairman since in the 112th and 113th Congresses. 
    Previously Chairman McKeon had served as the Chairman of the House 
    Committee on Education and the Workforce.
        (D) Chairman McKeon is a champion of a strong national defense, 
    the men and women of America's Armed Forces and their families, and 
    returning fiscal discipline to the Department of Defense. His 
    priority has been to ensure our troops deployed around the world 
    have the equipment, resources, authorities, training and time they 
    need to successfully complete their missions and return home.
        (E) For 52 consecutive years, the House Armed Services 
    Committee, in a bipartisan, bicameral tradition, has passed and 
    enacted an annual defense authorization act. Chairman McKeon had 
    said it has been the privilege of his life to shepherd that 
    tradition under his tenure.
        (F) It is therefore fitting this Act, the last national defense 
    authorization act of his tenure, be named in Chairman McKeon's 
    honor, as provided in subsection (a).
    (c) References.--Any reference in this or any other Act to the 
``National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015'' shall be 
deemed to refer to the ``Carl Levin and Howard P. `Buck' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015''.
SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
    (a) Divisions.--This Act is organized into four divisions as 
follows:
        (1) Division A--Department of Defense Authorizations.
        (2) Division B--Military Construction Authorizations.
        (3) Division C--Department of Energy National Security 
    Authorizations and Other Authorizations.
        (4) Division D--Funding Tables.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
Sec. 4. Budgetary effects of this Act.
Sec. 5. Explanatory statement.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of Appropriations.

                        Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Plan on modernization of UH-60A aircraft of Army National 
          Guard.

                        Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Construction of San Antonio class amphibious ship.
Sec. 122. Limitation on availability of funds for mission modules for 
          Littoral Combat Ship.
Sec. 123. Extension of limitation on availability of funds for Littoral 
          Combat Ship.
Sec. 124. Report on test evaluation master plan for Littoral Combat Ship 
          seaframes and mission modules.
Sec. 125. Airborne electronic attack capabilities.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 131. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of MQ-1 
          Predator aircraft.
Sec. 132. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of U-2 
          aircraft.
Sec. 133. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of A-10 
          aircraft.
Sec. 134. Prohibition on cancellation or modification of avionics 
          modernization program for C-130 aircraft.
Sec. 135. Limitation on availability of funds for retirement of Air 
          Force aircraft.
Sec. 136. Limitation on availability of funds for retirement of E-3 
          airborne warning and control system aircraft.
Sec. 137. Limitation on availability of funds for divestment or transfer 
          of KC-10 aircraft.
Sec. 138. Limitation on availability of funds for transfer of Air Force 
          C-130H and C-130J aircraft.
Sec. 139. Limitation on availability of funds for transfer of Air Force 
          KC-135 tankers.
Sec. 140. Report on C-130 aircraft.
Sec. 141. Report on status of F-16 aircraft.
Sec. 142. Report on options to modernize or replace T-1A aircraft.
Sec. 143. Report on status of air-launched cruise missile capabilities.

        Subtitle E--Defense-Wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 151. Additional oversight requirements for the undersea mobility 
          acquisition program of the United States Special Operations 
          Command.
Sec. 152. Plan for modernization or replacement of digital avionic 
          equipment.
Sec. 153. Comptroller General report on F-35 aircraft acquisition 
          program.

          TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of Appropriations.

     Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Modification of authority for prizes for advanced technology 
          achievements.
Sec. 212. Modification of Manufacturing Technology Program.
Sec. 213. Revision of requirement for acquisition programs to maintain 
          defense research facility records.
Sec. 214. Treatment by Department of Defense Test Resource Management 
          Center of significant modifications to test and evaluation 
          facilities and resources.
Sec. 215. Revision to the service requirement under the Science, 
          Mathematics, and Research for Transformation Defense Education 
          Program.
Sec. 216. Limitation on availability of funds for armored multi-purpose 
          vehicle program.
Sec. 217. Limitation on availability of funds for unmanned carrier-
          launched airborne surveillance and strike system.
Sec. 218. Limitation on availability of funds for airborne 
          reconnaissance systems.
Sec. 219. Limitation on availability of funds for retirement of Joint 
          Surveillance and Target Attack Radar Systems aircraft.

                           Subtitle C--Reports

Sec. 221. Reduction in frequency of reporting by Deputy Assistant 
          Secretary of Defense for Systems Engineering.
Sec. 222. Independent assessment of interagency biodefense research and 
          development.
Sec. 223. Briefing on modeling and simulation technological and 
          industrial base in support of requirements of Department of 
          Defense.

                        Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 231. Modification to requirement for contractor cost sharing in 
          pilot program to include technology protection features during 
          research and development of certain defense systems.
Sec. 232. Pilot program on assignment to Defense Advanced Research 
          Projects Agency of private sector personnel with critical 
          research and development expertise.
Sec. 233. Pilot program on enhancement of preparation of dependents of 
          members of Armed Forces for careers in science, technology, 
          engineering, and mathematics.
Sec. 234. Sense of Congress on helicopter health and usage monitoring 
          system of the Army.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Elimination of fiscal year limitation on prohibition of 
          payment of fines and penalties from the Environmental 
          Restoration Account, Defense.
Sec. 312. Method of funding for cooperative agreements under the Sikes 
          Act.
Sec. 313. Report on prohibition of disposal of waste in open-air burn 
          pits.
Sec. 314. Business case analysis of any plan to design, refurbish, or 
          construct a biofuel refinery.
Sec. 315. Environmental restoration at former Naval Air Station 
          Chincoteague, Virginia.
Sec. 316. Limitation on availability of funds for procurement of drop-in 
          fuels.
Sec. 317. Decontamination of a portion of former bombardment area on 
          island of Culebra, Puerto Rico.
Sec. 318. Alternative fuel automobiles.

                  Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 321. Modification of quarterly readiness reporting requirement.
Sec. 322. Additional requirement for strategic policy on prepositioning 
          of materiel and equipment.
Sec. 323. Elimination of authority of Secretary of the Army to abolish 
          arsenals.
Sec. 324. Modification of annual reporting requirement related to 
          prepositioning of materiel and equipment.

                           Subtitle D--Reports

Sec. 331. Repeal of annual report on Department of Defense operation and 
          financial support for military museums.
Sec. 332. Army assessment of regionally aligned forces.

           Subtitle E--Limitations and Extensions of Authority

Sec. 341. Limitation on authority to enter into a contract for the 
          sustainment, maintenance, repair, or overhaul of the F117 
          engine.
Sec. 342. Limitation on establishment of regional Special Operations 
          Forces Coordination Centers.
Sec. 343. Limitation on transfer of MC-12 aircraft to United States 
          Special Operations Command.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 351. Clarification of authority relating to provision of 
          installation-support services through intergovernmental 
          support agreements.
Sec. 352. Management of conventional ammunition inventory.

               TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                        Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. Revisions in permanent active duty end strength minimum 
          levels.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for reserves on active duty in support of the 
          reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Fiscal year 2015 limitation on number of non-dual status 
          technicians.
Sec. 415. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on active 
          duty for operational support.

               Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Authority to limit consideration for early retirement by 
          selective retirement boards to particular warrant officer year 
          groups and specialties.
Sec. 502. Authority for three-month deferral of retirement for officers 
          selected for selective early retirement.
Sec. 503. Repeal of limits on percentage of officers who may be 
          recommended for discharge during a fiscal year under enhanced 
          selective discharge authority.
Sec. 504. Reports on number and assignment of enlisted aides for 
          officers of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps.
Sec. 505. Repeal of requirement for submission to Congress of annual 
          reports on joint officer management and promotion policy 
          objectives for joint officers.
Sec. 506. Options for Phase II of joint professional military education.
Sec. 507. Elimination of requirement that a qualified aviator or naval 
          flight officer be in command of an inactivated nuclear-powered 
          aircraft carrier before decommissioning.
Sec. 508. Required consideration of certain elements of command climate 
          in performance appraisals of commanding officers.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 511. Retention on the reserve active-status list following 
          nonselection for promotion of certain health professions 
          officers and first lieutenants and lieutenants (junior grade) 
          pursuing baccalaureate degrees.
Sec. 512. Consultation with Chief of the National Guard Bureau in 
          selection of Directors and Deputy Directors, Army National 
          Guard and Air National Guard.
Sec. 513. Centralized database of information on military technician 
          positions.
Sec. 514. Report on management of personnel records of members of the 
          National Guard.

                 Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

Sec. 521. Enhancement of participation of mental health professionals in 
          boards for correction of military records and boards for 
          review of discharge or dismissal of members of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 522. Extension of authority to conduct programs on career 
          flexibility to enhance retention of members of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 523. Provision of information to members of the Armed Forces on 
          privacy rights relating to receipt of mental health services.
Sec. 524. Removal of artificial barriers to the service of women in the 
          Armed Forces.

  Subtitle D--Military Justice, Including Sexual Assault and Domestic 
                    Violence Prevention and Response

Sec. 531. Technical revisions and clarifications of certain provisions 
          in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
          relating to the military justice system.
Sec. 532. Ordering of depositions under the Uniform Code of Military 
          Justice.
Sec. 533. Access to Special Victims' Counsel.
Sec. 534. Enhancement of victims' rights in connection with prosecution 
          of certain sex-related offenses.
Sec. 535. Enforcement of crime victims' rights related to protections 
          afforded by certain Military Rules of Evidence.
Sec. 536. Modification of Military Rules of Evidence relating to 
          admissibility of general military character toward probability 
          of innocence.
Sec. 537. Modification of Rule 513 of the Military Rules of Evidence, 
          relating to the privilege against disclosure of communications 
          between psychotherapists and patients.
Sec. 538. Modification of Department of Defense policy on retention of 
          evidence in a sexual assault case to permit return of personal 
          property upon completion of related proceedings.
Sec. 539. Requirements relating to Sexual Assault Forensic Examiners for 
          the Armed Forces.
Sec. 540. Modification of term of judges of the United States Court of 
          Appeals for the Armed Forces.
Sec. 541. Review of decisions not to refer charges of certain sex-
          related offenses for trial by court-martial if requested by 
          chief prosecutor.
Sec. 542. Analysis and assessment of disposition of most serious 
          offenses identified in unrestricted reports on sexual assaults 
          in annual reports on sexual assaults in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 543. Plan for limited use of certain information on sexual assaults 
          in restricted reports by military criminal investigative 
          organizations.
Sec. 544. Improved Department of Defense information reporting and 
          collection of domestic violence incidents involving members of 
          the Armed Forces.
Sec. 545. Additional duties for judicial proceedings panel.
Sec. 546. Defense Advisory Committee on Investigation, Prosecution, and 
          Defense of Sexual Assault in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 547. Confidential review of characterization of terms of discharge 
          of members of the Armed Forces who are victims of sexual 
          offenses.

         Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, and Transition

Sec. 551. Enhancement of authority to assist members of the Armed Forces 
          to obtain professional credentials.
Sec. 552. Applicability of sexual assault prevention and response and 
          related military justice enhancements to military service 
          academies.
Sec. 553. Authorized duration of foreign and cultural exchange 
          activities at military service academies.
Sec. 554. Enhancement of authority to accept support for Air Force 
          Academy athletic programs.
Sec. 555. Pilot program to assist members of the Armed Forces in 
          obtaining post-service employment.
Sec. 556. Plan for education of members of Armed Forces on cyber 
          matters.
Sec. 557. Enhancement of information provided to members of the Armed 
          Forces and veterans regarding use of Post-9/11 Educational 
          Assistance and Federal financial aid through Transition 
          Assistance Program.
Sec. 558. Procedures for provision of certain information to State 
          veterans agencies to facilitate the transition of members of 
          the Armed Forces from military service to civilian life.

Subtitle F--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                 Matters

Sec. 561. Continuation of authority to assist local educational agencies 
          that benefit dependents of members of the Armed Forces and 
          Department of Defense civilian employees.
Sec. 562. Impact aid for children with severe disabilities.
Sec. 563. Amendments to the Impact Aid Improvement Act of 2012.
Sec. 564. Authority to employ non-United States citizens as teachers in 
          Department of Defense overseas dependents' school system.
Sec. 565. Inclusion of domestic dependent elementary and secondary 
          schools among functions of Advisory Council on Dependents' 
          Education.
Sec. 566. Protection of child custody arrangements for parents who are 
          members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 567. Improved consistency in data collection and reporting in Armed 
          Forces suicide prevention efforts.
Sec. 568. Improved data collection related to efforts to reduce 
          underemployment of spouses of members of the Armed Forces and 
          close the wage gap between military spouses and their civilian 
          counterparts.

                   Subtitle G--Decorations and Awards

Sec. 571. Medals for members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees 
          of the Department of Defense who were killed or wounded in an 
          attack by a foreign terrorist organization.
Sec. 572. Authorization for award of the Medal of Honor to members of 
          the Armed Forces for acts of valor during World War I.

            Subtitle H--Miscellaneous Reporting Requirements

Sec. 581. Review and report on military programs and controls regarding 
          professionalism.
Sec. 582. Review and report on prevention of suicide among members of 
          United States Special Operations Forces.
Sec. 583. Review and report on provision of job placement assistance and 
          related employment services directly to members of the reserve 
          components.
Sec. 584. Report on foreign language, regional expertise, and culture 
          considerations in overseas military operations.
Sec. 585. Deadline for submission of report containing results of review 
          of Office of Diversity Management and Equal Opportunity role 
          in sexual harassment cases.
Sec. 586. Independent assessment of risk and resiliency of United States 
          Special Operations Forces and effectiveness of the 
          Preservation of the Force and Families and Human Performance 
          Programs.
Sec. 587. Comptroller General report on hazing in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 588. Comptroller General report on impact of certain mental and 
          physical trauma on discharges from military service for 
          misconduct.

                        Subtitle I--Other Matters

Sec. 591. Inspection of outpatient residential facilities occupied by 
          recovering service members.
Sec. 592. Designation of voter assistance offices.
Sec. 593. Repeal of electronic voting demonstration project.
Sec. 594. Authority for removal from national cemeteries of remains of 
          certain deceased members of the Armed Forces who have no known 
          next of kin.
Sec. 595. Sense of Congress regarding leaving no member of the Armed 
          Forces unaccounted for during the drawdown of United States 
          forces in Afghanistan.

           TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. No fiscal year 2015 increase in basic pay for general and flag 
          officers.
Sec. 602. Extension of authority to provide temporary increase in rates 
          of basic allowance for housing under certain circumstances.
Sec. 603. Inclusion of Chief of the National Guard Bureau and Senior 
          Enlisted Advisor to the Chief of the National Guard Bureau 
          among senior members of the Armed Forces for purposes of pay 
          and allowances.
Sec. 604. Modification of computation of basic allowance for housing 
          inside the United States.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
          authorities for reserve forces.
Sec. 612. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
          authorities for health care professionals.
Sec. 613. One-year extension of special pay and bonus authorities for 
          nuclear officers.
Sec. 614. One-year extension of authorities relating to title 37 
          consolidated special pay, incentive pay, and bonus 
          authorities.
Sec. 615. One-year extension of authorities relating to payment of other 
          title 37 bonuses and special pays.

     Subtitle C--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

Sec. 621. Earlier determination of dependent status with respect to 
          transitional compensation for dependents of certain members 
          separated for dependent abuse.
Sec. 622. Modification of determination of retired pay base for officers 
          retired in general and flag officer grades.
Sec. 623. Inapplicability of reduced annual adjustment of retired pay 
          for members of the Armed Forces under the age of 62 under the 
          Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 who first become members prior 
          to January 1, 2016.
Sec. 624. Survivor Benefit Plan annuities for special needs trusts 
          established for the benefit of dependent children incapable of 
          self-support.
Sec. 625. Modification of per-fiscal year calculation of days of certain 
          active duty or active service to reduce eligibility age for 
          retirement for non-regular service.

Subtitle D--Commissary and Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality Benefits 
                             and Operations

Sec. 631. Procurement of brand-name and other commercial items for 
          resale by commissary stores.
Sec. 632. Authority of nonappropriated fund instrumentalities to enter 
          into contracts with other Federal agencies and 
          instrumentalities to provide and obtain certain goods and 
          services.
Sec. 633. Competitive pricing of legal consumer tobacco products sold in 
          Department of Defense retail stores.
Sec. 634. Review of management, food, and pricing options for defense 
          commissary system.

                    TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 701. Mental health assessments for members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 702. Modifications of cost-sharing and other requirements for the 
          TRICARE Pharmacy Benefits Program.
Sec. 703. Elimination of inpatient day limits and other limits in 
          provision of mental health services.
Sec. 704. Authority for provisional TRICARE coverage for emerging health 
          care services and supplies.
Sec. 705. Clarification of provision of food to former members and 
          dependents not receiving inpatient care in military medical 
          treatment facilities.
Sec. 706. Availability of breastfeeding support, supplies, and 
          counseling under the TRICARE program.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 711. Provision of notice of change to TRICARE benefits.
Sec. 712. Surveys on continued viability of TRICARE Standard and TRICARE 
          Extra.
Sec. 713. Review of military health system modernization study.

                  Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 721. Designation and responsibilities of senior medical advisor for 
          Armed Forces Retirement Home.
Sec. 722. Extension of authority for joint Department of Defense-
          Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration 
          Fund.
Sec. 723. Report on status of reductions in TRICARE Prime service areas.
Sec. 724. Extension of authority to provide rehabilitation and 
          vocational benefits to members of the Armed Forces with severe 
          injuries or illnesses.
Sec. 725. Acquisition strategy for health care professional staffing 
          services.
Sec. 726. Pilot program on medication therapy management under TRICARE 
          program.
Sec. 727. Antimicrobial stewardship program at medical facilities of the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 728. Report on improvements in the identification and treatment of 
          mental health conditions and traumatic brain injury among 
          members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 729. Report on efforts to treat infertility of military families.
Sec. 730. Report on implementation of recommendations of Institute of 
          Medicine on improvements to certain resilience and prevention 
          programs of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 731. Comptroller General report on transition of care for post-
          traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury.
Sec. 732. Comptroller General report on mental health stigma reduction 
          efforts in the Department of Defense.
Sec. 733. Comptroller General report on women's health care services for 
          members of the Armed Forces and other covered beneficiaries.

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                 MATTERS

              Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 801. Modular open systems approaches in acquisition programs.
Sec. 802. Recharacterization of changes to Major Automated Information 
          System programs.
Sec. 803. Amendments relating to defense business systems.
Sec. 804. Report on implementation of acquisition process for 
          information technology systems.

 Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                             and Limitations

Sec. 811. Extension and modification of contract authority for advanced 
          component development and prototype units.
Sec. 812. Amendments relating to authority of the Defense Advanced 
          Research Projects Agency to carry out certain prototype 
          projects.
Sec. 813. Extension of limitation on aggregate annual amount available 
          for contract services.
Sec. 814. Improvement in defense design-build construction process.
Sec. 815. Permanent authority for use of simplified acquisition 
          procedures for certain commercial items.
Sec. 816. Restatement and revision of requirements applicable to 
          multiyear defense acquisitions to be specifically authorized 
          by law.
Sec. 817. Sourcing requirements related to avoiding counterfeit 
          electronic parts.
Sec. 818. Amendments to Proof of Concept Commercialization Pilot 
          Program.

                   Subtitle C--Industrial Base Matters

Sec. 821. Temporary extension of and amendments to test program for 
          negotiation of comprehensive small business subcontracting 
          plans.
Sec. 822. Plan for improving data on bundled or consolidated contracts.
Sec. 823. Authority to provide education to small businesses on certain 
          requirements of Arms Export Control Act.
Sec. 824. Matters relating to reverse auctions.
Sec. 825. Sole source contracts for small business concerns owned and 
          controlled by women.

      Subtitle D--Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform

Sec. 831. Chief Information Officer authority enhancements.
Sec. 832. Enhanced transparency and improved risk management in 
          information technology investments.
Sec. 833. Portfolio review.
Sec. 834. Federal data center consolidation initiative.
Sec. 835. Expansion of training and use of information technology 
          cadres.
Sec. 836. Maximizing the benefit of the Federal strategic sourcing 
          initiative.
Sec. 837. Governmentwide software purchasing program.

                Subtitle E--Never Contract With the Enemy

Sec. 841. Prohibition on providing funds to the enemy.
Sec. 842. Additional access to records.
Sec. 843. Definitions.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 851. Rapid acquisition and deployment procedures for United States 
          Special Operations Command.
Sec. 852. Consideration of corrosion control in preliminary design 
          review.
Sec. 853. Program manager development report.
Sec. 854. Operational metrics for Joint Information Environment and 
          supporting activities.
Sec. 855. Compliance with requirements for senior Department of Defense 
          officials seeking employment with defense contractors.
Sec. 856. Enhancement of whistleblower protection for employees of 
          grantees.
Sec. 857. Prohibition on reimbursement of contractors for congressional 
          investigations and inquiries.
Sec. 858. Requirement to provide photovoltaic devices from United States 
          sources.
Sec. 859. Reimbursement of Department of Defense for assistance provided 
          to nongovernmental entertainment-oriented media producers.
Sec. 860. Three-year extension of authority for Joint Urgent Operational 
          Needs Fund.

       TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

              Subtitle A--Department of Defense Management

Sec. 901. Reorganization of the Office of the Secretary of Defense and 
          Related Matters.
Sec. 902. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve 
          Affairs.
Sec. 903. Requirement for assessment of options to modify the number of 
          combatant commands.
Sec. 904. Office of Net Assessment.
Sec. 905. Periodic review of Department of Defense management 
          headquarters.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 911. Modifications of biennial strategic workforce plan relating to 
          senior management, functional, and technical workforces of the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 912. Repeal of extension of Comptroller General report on 
          inventory.
Sec. 913. Extension of authority to waive reimbursement of costs of 
          activities for nongovernmental personnel at Department of 
          Defense regional centers for security studies.
Sec. 914. Pilot program to establish Government lodging program.
Sec. 915. Single standard mileage reimbursement rate for privately owned 
          automobiles of Government employees and members of the 
          uniformed services.
Sec. 916. Modifications to requirements for accounting for members of 
          the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian employees 
          listed as missing.

                       TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Authority to transfer funds to the National Nuclear Security 
          Administration to sustain nuclear weapons modernization and 
          naval reactors.
Sec. 1003. Reporting of balances carried forward by the Department of 
          Defense at the end of each fiscal year.

                   Subtitle B--Counter-Drug Activities

Sec. 1011. Extension of authority to support unified counterdrug and 
          counterterrorism campaign in Colombia.
Sec. 1012. Extension and modification of authority of Department of 
          Defense to provide support for counterdrug activities of other 
          governmental agencies.
Sec. 1013. Availability of funds for additional support for counterdrug 
          activities of certain foreign governments.
Sec. 1014. Extension and modification of authority for joint task forces 
          supporting law enforcement agencies conducting activities to 
          counter transnational organized crime to support law 
          enforcement agencies conducting counter-terrorism activities.
Sec. 1015. Sense of Congress regarding security in the Western 
          Hemisphere.

                 Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

Sec. 1021. Definition of combatant and support vessel for purposes of 
          the annual plan and certification relating to budgeting for 
          construction of naval vessels.
Sec. 1022. National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund.
Sec. 1023. Limitation on use of funds for inactivation of U.S.S. George 
          Washington.
Sec. 1024. Sense of Congress recognizing the anniversary of the sinking 
          of U.S.S. Thresher.
Sec. 1025. Pilot program for sustainment of Littoral Combat Ships on 
          extended deployments.
Sec. 1026. Availability of funds for retirement or inactivation of 
          Ticonderoga class cruisers or dock landing ships.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1031. Extension of authority to make rewards for combating 
          terrorism.
Sec. 1032. Prohibition on use of funds to construct or modify facilities 
          in the United States to house detainees transferred from 
          United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1033. Prohibition on the use of funds for the transfer or release 
          of individuals detained at United States Naval Station, 
          Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

          Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1041. Modification of Department of Defense authority for 
          humanitarian demining assistance and stockpiled conventional 
          munitions assistance programs.
Sec. 1042. Airlift service.
Sec. 1043. Authority to accept certain voluntary legal support services.
Sec. 1044. Expansion of authority for Secretary of Defense to use the 
          Department of Defense reimbursement rate for transportation 
          services provided to certain non-Department of Defense 
          entities.
Sec. 1045. Repeal of authority relating to use of military installations 
          by Civil Reserve Air Fleet contractors.
Sec. 1046. Inclusion of Chief of the National Guard Bureau among 
          leadership of the Department of Defense provided physical 
          protection and personal security.
Sec. 1047. Inclusion of regional organizations in authority for 
          assignment of civilian employees of the Department of Defense 
          as advisors to foreign ministries of defense.
Sec. 1048. Report and limitation on availability of funds for aviation 
          foreign internal defense program.
Sec. 1049. Modifications to OH-58D Kiowa Warrior aircraft.

                     Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1051. Protection of top-tier defense-critical infrastructure from 
          electromagnetic pulse.
Sec. 1052. Response of the Department of Defense to compromises of 
          classified information.
Sec. 1053. Study on joint analytic capability of the Department of 
          Defense.
Sec. 1054. Business case analysis of the creation of an active duty 
          association for the 168th Air Refueling Wing.
Sec. 1055. Reports on recommendations of the National Commission on the 
          Structure of the Air Force.
Sec. 1056. Report on protection of military installations.
Sec. 1057. Comptroller General briefing and report on Army and Army 
          National Guard force structure changes.
Sec. 1058. Improving analytic support to systems acquisition and 
          allocation of acquisition, intelligence, surveillance and 
          reconnaissance assets.
Sec. 1059. Review of United States military strategy and the force 
          posture of allies and partners in the United States Pacific 
          Command area of responsibility.
Sec. 1060. Repeal of certain reporting requirements relating to the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 1061. Repeal of requirement for Comptroller General of the United 
          States annual reviews and report on pilot program on 
          commercial fee-for-service air refueling support for the Air 
          Force.
Sec. 1062. Report on additional matters in connection with report on the 
          force structure of the United States Army.
Sec. 1063. Certification for realignment of forces at Lajes Air Force 
          Base, Azores.

                        Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1071. Technical and clerical amendments.
Sec. 1072. Reform of quadrennial defense review.
Sec. 1073. Biennial surveys of Department of Defense civilian employees 
          on workplace and gender relations matters.
Sec. 1074. Revision to statute of limitations for aviation insurance 
          claims.
Sec. 1075. Pilot program for the Human Terrain System.
Sec. 1076. Clarification of policies on management of special use 
          airspace of Department of Defense.
Sec. 1077. Department of Defense policies on community involvement in 
          Department community outreach events.
Sec. 1078. Notification of foreign threats to information technology 
          systems impacting national security.
Sec. 1079. Pilot program to rehabilitate and modify homes of disabled 
          and low-income veterans.

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

Sec. 1101. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation on 
          premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for Federal 
          civilian employees working overseas.
Sec. 1102. One-year extension of discretionary authority to grant 
          allowances, benefits, and gratuities to personnel on official 
          duty in a combat zone.
Sec. 1103. Revision to list of science and technology reinvention 
          laboratories.
Sec. 1104. Extension and modification of experimental program for 
          scientific and technical personnel.
Sec. 1105. Temporary authorities for certain positions at Department of 
          Defense research and engineering facilities.
Sec. 1106. Rate of overtime pay for Department of the Navy employees 
          performing work aboard or dockside in support of the nuclear 
          aircraft carrier forward deployed in Japan.
Sec. 1107. Extension of part-time reemployment authority.
Sec. 1108. Personnel authorities for civilian personnel for the United 
          States Cyber Command and the cyber component headquarters of 
          the military departments.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                   Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1201. Modification and extension of Global Security Contingency 
          Fund.
Sec. 1202. Notice to Congress on certain assistance under authority to 
          conduct activities to enhance the capability of foreign 
          countries to respond to incidents involving weapons of mass 
          destruction.
Sec. 1203. Enhanced authority for provision of support to foreign 
          military liaison officers of foreign countries while assigned 
          to the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1204. Prohibition on use of funds for assistance to units of 
          foreign security forces that have committed a gross violation 
          of human rights.
Sec. 1205. Codification and enhancement of authority to build the 
          capacity of foreign security forces.
Sec. 1206. Training of security forces and associated security 
          ministries of foreign countries to promote respect for the 
          rule of law and human rights.
Sec. 1207. Cross servicing agreements for loan of personnel protection 
          and personnel survivability equipment in coalition operations.
Sec. 1208. Extension and modification of authority for support of 
          special operations to combat terrorism.
Sec. 1209. Authority to provide assistance to the vetted Syrian 
          opposition.
Sec. 1210. Provision of logistic support for the conveyance of certain 
          defense articles to foreign forces training with the United 
          States Armed Forces.
Sec. 1211. Biennial report on programs carried out by the Department of 
          Defense to provide training, equipment, or other assistance or 
          reimbursement to foreign security forces.

     Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq

Sec. 1221. Commanders' Emergency Response Program in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1222. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of 
          certain coalition nations for support provided to United 
          States military operations.
Sec. 1223. One-year extension of logistical support for coalition forces 
          supporting certain United States military operations.
Sec. 1224. United States plan for sustaining the Afghanistan National 
          Security Forces through the end of fiscal year 2017.
Sec. 1225. Semiannual report on enhancing security and stability in 
          Afghanistan.
Sec. 1226. Sense of Congress on stability and sovereignty of 
          Afghanistan.
Sec. 1227. Extension of Afghan Special Immigrant Program.
Sec. 1228. Independent assessment of United States efforts against al-
          Qaeda.
Sec. 1229. Sense of Congress on security of Afghan women.
Sec. 1230. Review process for use of United States funds for 
          construction projects in Afghanistan that cannot be physically 
          accessed by United States Government personnel.
Sec. 1231. Extension of authority to transfer defense articles and 
          provide defense services to the military and security forces 
          of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1232. One-year extension of authority to use funds for 
          reintegration activities in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1233. Clearance of unexploded ordnance on former United States 
          training ranges in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1234. Report on impact of end of major combat operations in 
          Afghanistan on authority to use military force.
Sec. 1235. Report on bilateral security cooperation with Pakistan.
Sec. 1236. Authority to provide assistance to counter the Islamic State 
          in Iraq and the Levant.
Sec. 1237. Extension and modification of authority to support operations 
          and activities of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq.

         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

Sec. 1241. Limitation on military cooperation between the United States 
          and the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1242. Notification and assessment of proposal to modify or 
          introduce new aircraft or sensors for flight by the Russian 
          Federation under Open Skies Treaty.
Sec. 1243. Limitations on providing certain missile defense information 
          to the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1244. Report on non-compliance by the Russian Federation with its 
          obligations under the INF Treaty.
Sec. 1245. Annual report on military and security developments involving 
          the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1246. Prohibition on use of funds to enter into contracts or other 
          agreements with Rosoboronexport.
Sec. 1247. Report on the New START Treaty.

         Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Asia-Pacific Region

Sec. 1251. Strategy to prioritize United States defense interests in the 
          Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 1252. Modifications to annual report on military and security 
          developments involving the People's Republic of China.
Sec. 1253. Military-to-military engagement with the Government of Burma.
Sec. 1254. Report on Department of Defense munitions strategy of the 
          United States Pacific Command.
Sec. 1255. Missile defense cooperation in Northeast Asia.
Sec. 1256. Sense of Congress and report on Taiwan and its contribution 
          to regional peace and stability.
Sec. 1257. Independent assessment of the ability of the Department of 
          Defense to counter anti-access and area-denial strategies, 
          capabilities, and other key technologies of potential 
          adversaries.
Sec. 1258. Sense of Congress reaffirming security cooperation with Japan 
          and the Republic of Korea.
Sec. 1259. Report on maritime security strategy in the Asia-Pacific 
          region.
Sec. 1259A. Sense of Congress on Taiwan maritime capabilities and 
          exercise participation.
Sec. 1259B. Modification of matters for discussion in annual reports of 
          United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission.

                        Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 1261. One-year extension of authorization for non-conventional 
          assisted recovery capabilities.
Sec. 1262. Modification of national security planning guidance to deny 
          safe havens to al-Qaeda and its violent extremist affiliates.
Sec. 1263. Enhanced authority to acquire goods and services of Djibouti 
          in support of Department of Defense activities in United 
          States Africa Command area of responsibility.
Sec. 1264. Treatment of the Kurdistan Democratic Party and the Patriotic 
          Union of Kurdistan under the Immigration and Nationality Act.
Sec. 1265. Prohibition on integration of missile defense systems of 
          China into missile defense systems of United States and sense 
          of Congress concerning integration of missile defense systems 
          of Russia into missile defense systems of NATO.
Sec. 1266. Limitation on availability of funds to implement the Arms 
          Trade Treaty.
Sec. 1267. Notification and review of potentially significant arms 
          control noncompliance.
Sec. 1268. Inter-European Air Forces Academy.
Sec. 1269. Department of Defense support to security of United States 
          diplomatic facilities.
Sec. 1270. Information on sanctioned persons and businesses through the 
          Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System.
Sec. 1271. Reports on nuclear program of Iran.
Sec. 1272. Sense of Congress on defense modernization by NATO countries.
Sec. 1273. Report on protection of cultural property in event of armed 
          conflict.
Sec. 1274. United States strategy and plans for enhancing security and 
          stability in Europe.
Sec. 1275. Report on military assistance to Ukraine.
Sec. 1276. Sense of Congress on efforts to remove Joseph Kony from the 
          battlefield and end the atrocities of the Lord's Resistance 
          Army.
Sec. 1277. Extension of annual reports on the military power of Iran.
Sec. 1278. Report and strategy regarding North Africa, West Africa, and 
          the Sahel.
Sec. 1279. Rule of construction.
Sec. 1280. Approval of the Amendment to the Agreement Between the 
          Government of the United States of America and the Government 
          of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
          for Cooperation on the Uses of Atomic Energy for Mutual 
          Defense Purposes.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

                            Subtitle A--Funds

Sec. 1301. Specification of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds.
Sec. 1302. Funding allocations.

Subtitle B--Consolidation and Modernization of Statutes Relating to the 
       Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program

Sec. 1311. Short title.
Sec. 1312. Definitions.

                       Part I--Program Authorities

Sec. 1321. Authority to carry out Department of Defense Cooperative 
          Threat Reduction Program.
Sec. 1322. Use of funds for certain emergent threats or opportunities.
Sec. 1323. Authority for urgent threat reduction activities under 
          Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program.
Sec. 1324. Use of funds for unspecified purposes or for increased 
          amounts.
Sec. 1325. Use of contributions to Department of Defense Cooperative 
          Threat Reduction Program.

                  Part II--Restrictions and Limitations

Sec. 1331. Prohibition on use of funds for specified purposes.
Sec. 1332. Requirement for on-Site managers.
Sec. 1333. Limitation on use of funds until certain permits obtained.
Sec. 1334. Limitation on availability of funds for Cooperative Threat 
          Reduction activities with Russian Federation.

             Part III--Recurring Certifications and Reports

Sec. 1341. Annual certifications on use of facilities being constructed 
          for Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction 
          projects or activities.
Sec. 1342. Requirement to submit summary of amounts requested by project 
          category.
Sec. 1343. Reports on activities and assistance under Department of 
          Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program.
Sec. 1344. Metrics for Department of Defense Cooperative Threat 
          Reduction Program.

               Part IV--Repeals and Transition Provisions

Sec. 1351. Repeals.
Sec. 1352. Transition provisions.

                     TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                      Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1405. Defense Health Program.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 1411. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of 
          Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
          Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health 
          Care Center, Illinois.
Sec. 1412. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
          Home.
Sec. 1413. Comptroller General of the United States report on Captain 
          James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center, North Chicago, 
          Illinois.

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 1501. Purpose.
Sec. 1502. Procurement.
Sec. 1503. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1504. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1505. Military personnel.
Sec. 1506. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1507. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1508. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1509. Defense Health program.
Sec. 1510. Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund.
Sec. 1511. European Reassurance Initiative.

                      Subtitle B--Financial Matters

Sec. 1521. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1522. Special transfer authority.

           Subtitle C--Limitations, Reports, and Other Matters

Sec. 1531. Afghanistan Infrastructure Fund.
Sec. 1532. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1533. Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund.
Sec. 1534. Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund.
Sec. 1535. European Reassurance Initiative.
Sec. 1536. Plan for transition of funding of United States Special 
          Operations Command from supplemental funding for overseas 
          contingency operations to recurring funding for future-years 
          defense programs.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

Sec. 1601. Department of Defense Space Security and Defense Program.
Sec. 1602. Evolved expendable launch vehicle notification.
Sec. 1603. Satellite communications responsibilities of Executive Agent 
          for Space.
Sec. 1604. Rocket propulsion system development program.
Sec. 1605. Pilot program for acquisition of commercial satellite 
          communication services.
Sec. 1606. Update of National Security Space Strategy to include space 
          control and space superiority strategy.
Sec. 1607. Allocation of funds for the Space Security and Defense 
          Program; report on space control.
Sec. 1608. Prohibition on contracting with Russian suppliers of rocket 
          engines for the evolved expendable launch vehicle program.
Sec. 1609. Assessment of evolved expendable launch vehicle program.
Sec. 1610. Competitive procedures required to launch payload for mission 
          number five of the Operationally Responsive Space Program.
Sec. 1611. Availability of additional rocket cores pursuant to 
          competitive procedures.
Sec. 1612. Limitations on availability of funds for weather satellite 
          follow-on system and Defense Meteorological Satellite program.
Sec. 1613. Limitation on availability of funds for space-based infrared 
          systems space data exploitation.
Sec. 1614. Limitations on availability of funds for hosted payload and 
          wide field of view testbed of the space-based infrared 
          systems.
Sec. 1615. Limitations on availability of funds for protected tactical 
          demonstration and protected military satellite communications 
          testbed of the advanced extremely high frequency program.
Sec. 1616. Study of space situational awareness architecture.
Sec. 1617. Briefing on range support for launches in support of national 
          security.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

Sec. 1621. Tactical Exploitation of National Capabilities Executive 
          Agent.
Sec. 1622. One-year extension of report on imagery intelligence and 
          geospatial information support provided to regional 
          organizations and security alliances.
Sec. 1623. Extension of Secretary of Defense authority to engage in 
          commercial activities as security for intelligence collection 
          activities.
Sec. 1624. Extension of authority relating to jurisdiction over 
          Department of Defense facilities for intelligence collection 
          or special operations activities abroad.
Sec. 1625. Assessment and limitation on availability of funds for 
          intelligence activities and programs of United States Special 
          Operations Command and special operations forces.
Sec. 1626. Annual briefing on the intelligence, surveillance, and 
          reconnaissance requirements of the combatant commands.
Sec. 1627. Prohibition on National Intelligence Program consolidation.
Sec. 1628. Personnel security and insider threat.
Sec. 1629. Migration of Distributed Common Ground System of Department 
          of the Army to an open system architecture.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

Sec. 1631. Budgeting and accounting for cyber mission forces.
Sec. 1632. Reporting on cyber incidents with respect to networks and 
          information systems of operationally critical contractors.
Sec. 1633. Executive agents for cyber test and training ranges.
Sec. 1634. Cyberspace mapping.
Sec. 1635. Review of cross domain solution policy and requirement for 
          cross domain solution strategy.
Sec. 1636. Requirement for strategy to develop and deploy decryption 
          service for the Joint Information Environment.
Sec. 1637. Actions to address economic or industrial espionage in 
          cyberspace.
Sec. 1638. Sense of Congress regarding role of reserve components in 
          defense of United States against cyber attacks.
Sec. 1639. Sense of Congress on the future of the Internet and the .MIL 
          top-level domain.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1641. Preparation of annual budget request regarding nuclear 
          weapons.
Sec. 1642. Improvement to biennial assessment on delivery platforms for 
          nuclear weapons and the nuclear command and control system.
Sec. 1643. Congressional Budget Office review of cost estimates for 
          nuclear weapons.
Sec. 1644. Retention of missile silos.
Sec. 1645. Procurement authority for certain parts of intercontinental 
          ballistic missile fuzes.
Sec. 1646. Assessment of nuclear weapon secondary requirement.
Sec. 1647. Certification on nuclear force structure.
Sec. 1648. Advance notice and reports on B61 life extension program.
Sec. 1649. Notification and report concerning removal or consolidation 
          of dual-capable aircraft from Europe.
Sec. 1650. Reports on installation of nuclear command, control, and 
          communications systems at headquarters of United States 
          Strategic Command.
Sec. 1651. Report on plans for response of Department of Defense to INF 
          Treaty violation.
Sec. 1652. Statement of policy on the nuclear triad.
Sec. 1653. Sense of Congress on deterrence and defense posture of the 
          North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

Sec. 1661. Availability of funds for Iron Dome short-range rocket 
          defense system.
Sec. 1662. Testing and assessment of missile defense systems prior to 
          production and deployment.
Sec. 1663. Acquisition plan for re-designed exo-atmospheric kill 
          vehicle.
Sec. 1664. Study on testing program of ground-based midcourse missile 
          defense system.
Sec. 1665. Sense of Congress and report on homeland ballistic missile 
          defense.
Sec. 1666. Sense of Congress and report on regional ballistic missile 
          defense.

        TITLE XVII--NATIONAL COMMISSION ON THE FUTURE OF THE ARMY

           Subtitle A--Establishment and Duties of Commission

Sec. 1701. Short title.
Sec. 1702. National Commission on the Future of the Army.
Sec. 1703. Duties of the Commission.
Sec. 1704. Powers of the Commission.
Sec. 1705. Commission personnel matters.
Sec. 1706. Termination of the Commission.
Sec. 1707. Funding.

                     Subtitle B--Related Limitations

Sec. 1711. Prohibition on use of fiscal year 2015 funds to reduce 
          strengths of Army personnel.
Sec. 1712. Limitations on the transfer, including preparations for the 
          transfer, of AH-64 Apache helicopters assigned to the Army 
          National Guard.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be 
          specified by law.

                  TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2104. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2004 project.
Sec. 2105. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2013 projects.
Sec. 2106. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2011 
          project.
Sec. 2107. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2012 
          projects.
Sec. 2108. Limitation on construction of cadet barracks at United States 
          Military Academy, New York.
Sec. 2109. Limitation on funding for family housing construction at Camp 
          Walker, Republic of Korea.

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2205. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2012 projects.
Sec. 2206. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2014 project.
Sec. 2207. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2011 
          projects.
Sec. 2208. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2012 
          projects.

              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2302. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2303. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2008 project.
Sec. 2304. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2011 
          project.
Sec. 2305. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2012 
          project.

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

                Subtitle A--Defense Agency Authorizations

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized energy conservation projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
Sec. 2404. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2011 
          projects.
Sec. 2405. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2012 
          projects.
Sec. 2406. Limitation on project authorization to carry out certain 
          fiscal year 2015 projects pending submission of report.

          Subtitle B--Chemical Demilitarization Authorizations

Sec. 2411. Authorization of appropriations, chemical demilitarization 
          construction, defense-wide.
Sec. 2412. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2000 project.

   TITLE XXV--NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION SECURITY INVESTMENT 
                                 PROGRAM

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.

             TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

 Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve construction 
          and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 2611. Modification and extension of authority to carry out certain 
          fiscal year 2012 projects.
Sec. 2612. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2013 projects.
Sec. 2613. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2014 project.
Sec. 2614. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2011 
          projects.

          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and 
          closure activities funded through Department of Defense base 
          closure account.

            Subtitle B--Prohibition on Additional BRAC Round

Sec. 2711. Prohibition on conducting additional Base Realignment and 
          Closure (BRAC) round.

                        Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 2721. Modification of property disposal procedures under base 
          realignment and closure process.

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing 
                                 Changes

Sec. 2801. Congressional notification of construction projects, land 
          acquisitions, and defense access road projects conducted under 
          authorities other than a Military Construction Authorization 
          Act.
Sec. 2802. Modification of authority to carry out unspecified minor 
          military construction.
Sec. 2803. Clarification of authorized use of payments-In-Kind and in-
          Kind contributions.
Sec. 2804. Use of one-step turn-key contractor selection procedures for 
          additional facility projects.
Sec. 2805. Limitations on military construction in European Command area 
          of responsibility and European Reassurance Initiative.
Sec. 2806. Extension of temporary, limited authority to use operation 
          and maintenance funds for construction projects in certain 
          areas outside the United States.
Sec. 2807. Application of residential building construction standards.
Sec. 2808. Limitation on construction of new facilities at Guantanamo 
          Bay, Cuba.

         Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

Sec. 2811. Renewals, extensions, and succeeding leases for financial 
          institutions operating on military installations.
Sec. 2812. Deposit of reimbursed funds to cover administrative expenses 
          relating to certain real property transactions.

   Subtitle C--Provisions Related to Asia-Pacific Military Realignment

Sec. 2821. Realignment of Marines Corps forces in Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 2822. Establishment of surface danger zone, Ritidian Unit, Guam 
          National Wildlife Refuge.

                      Subtitle D--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2831. Land conveyance, Gordo Army Reserve Center, Gordo, Alabama.
Sec. 2832. Land conveyance, West Nome Tank Farm, Nome, Alaska.
Sec. 2833. Land conveyance, former Air Force Norwalk Defense Fuel Supply 
          Point, Norwalk, California.
Sec. 2834. Transfer of administrative jurisdiction and alternative land 
          conveyance authority, former Walter Reed Army Hospital, 
          District of Columbia.
Sec. 2835. Land conveyance, former Lynn Haven fuel depot, Lynn Haven, 
          Florida.
Sec. 2836. Transfers of administrative jurisdiction, Camp Frank D. 
          Merrill and Lake Lanier, Georgia.
Sec. 2837. Land conveyance, Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, Hawaii.
Sec. 2838. Modification of conditions on land conveyance, Joliet Army 
          Ammunition Plant, Illinois.
Sec. 2839. Transfer of administrative jurisdiction, Camp Gruber, 
          Oklahoma.
Sec. 2840. Conveyance, Joint Base Charleston, South Carolina.
Sec. 2841. Land exchanges, Arlington County, Virginia.

         Subtitle E--Military Memorials, Monuments, and Museums

Sec. 2851. Acceptance of in-kind gifts on behalf of Heritage Center for 
          the National Museum of the United States Army.
Sec. 2852. Mt. Soledad Veterans Memorial, San Diego, California.
Sec. 2853. Establishment of memorial to the victims of the shooting at 
          the Washington Navy Yard on September 16, 2013.

                        Subtitle F--Designations

Sec. 2861. Redesignation of the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies 
          as the Daniel K. Inouye Asia-Pacific Center for Security 
          Studies.

                        Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 2871. Report on physical security at Department of Defense 
          facilities.

    TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2901. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition project.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2903. Authorized Defense Agency construction and land acquisition 
          project.
Sec. 2904. Authorization of appropriations.

         TITLE XXX--NATURAL RESOURCES RELATED GENERAL PROVISIONS

            Subtitle A--Land Conveyances and Related Matters

Sec. 3001. Land conveyance, Wainwright, Alaska.
Sec. 3002. Sealaska land entitlement finalization.
Sec. 3003. Southeast Arizona land exchange and conservation.
Sec. 3004. Land exchange, Cibola National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona, and 
          Bureau of Land Management land in Riverside County, 
          California.
Sec. 3005. Special rules for Inyo National Forest, California, land 
          exchange.
Sec. 3006. Land exchange, Trinity Public Utilities District, Trinity 
          County, California, the Bureau of Land Management, and the 
          Forest Service.
Sec. 3007. Idaho County, Idaho, shooting range land conveyance.
Sec. 3008. School District 318, Minnesota, land exchange.
Sec. 3009. Northern Nevada land conveyances.
Sec. 3010. San Juan County, New Mexico, Federal land conveyance.
Sec. 3011. Land conveyance, Uinta-Wasatch-Cache National Forest, Utah.
Sec. 3012. Conveyance of certain land to the city of Fruit Heights, 
          Utah.
Sec. 3013. Land conveyance, Hanford Site, Washington.
Sec. 3014. Ranch A Wyoming consolidation and management improvement.

     Subtitle B--Public Lands and National Forest System Management

Sec. 3021. Bureau of Land Management permit processing.
Sec. 3022. Internet-based onshore oil and gas lease sales.
Sec. 3023. Grazing permits and leases.
Sec. 3024. Cabin user and transfer fees.

                 Subtitle C--National Park System Units

Sec. 3030. Addition of Ashland Harbor Breakwater Light to the Apostle 
          Islands National Seashore.
Sec. 3031. Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park.
Sec. 3032. Coltsville National Historical Park.
Sec. 3033. First State National Historical Park.
Sec. 3034. Gettysburg National Military Park.
Sec. 3035. Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad National Historical Park, 
          Maryland.
Sec. 3036. Harriet Tubman National Historical Park, Auburn, New York.
Sec. 3037. Hinchliffe Stadium addition to Paterson Great Falls National 
          Historical Park.
Sec. 3038. Lower East Side Tenement National Historic Site.
Sec. 3039. Manhattan Project National Historical Park.
Sec. 3040. North Cascades National Park and Stephen Mather Wilderness.
Sec. 3041. Oregon Caves National Monument and Preserve.
Sec. 3042. San Antonio Missions National Historical Park.
Sec. 3043. Valles Caldera National Preserve, New Mexico.
Sec. 3044. Vicksburg National Military Park.

   Subtitle D--National Park System Studies, Management, and Related 
                                 Matters

Sec. 3050. Revolutionary War and War of 1812 American battlefield 
          protection program.
Sec. 3051. Special resource studies.
Sec. 3052. National heritage areas and corridors.
Sec. 3053. National historic site support facility improvements.
Sec. 3054. National Park System donor acknowledgment.
Sec. 3055. Coin to commemorate 100th anniversary of the National Park 
          Service.
Sec. 3056. Commission to study the potential creation of a National 
          Women's History Museum.
Sec. 3057. Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area.

                 Subtitle E--Wilderness and Withdrawals

Sec. 3060. Alpine Lakes Wilderness additions and Pratt and Middle Fork 
          Snoqualmie Rivers protection.
Sec. 3061. Columbine-Hondo Wilderness.
Sec. 3062. Hermosa Creek watershed protection.
Sec. 3063. North Fork Federal lands withdrawal area.
Sec. 3064. Pine Forest Range Wilderness.
Sec. 3065. Rocky Mountain Front Conservation Management Area and 
          wilderness additions.
Sec. 3066. Wovoka Wilderness.
Sec. 3067. Withdrawal area related to Wovoka Wilderness.
Sec. 3068. Withdrawal and reservation of additional public land for 
          Naval Air Weapons Station, China Lake, California.

                   Subtitle F--Wild and Scenic Rivers

Sec. 3071. Illabot Creek, Washington, wild and scenic river.
Sec. 3072. Missisquoi and Trout wild and scenic rivers, Vermont.
Sec. 3073. White Clay Creek wild and scenic river expansion.
Sec. 3074. Studies of wild and scenic rivers.

                         Subtitle G--Trust Lands

Sec. 3077. Land taken into trust for benefit of the Northern Cheyenne 
          Tribe.
Sec. 3078. Transfer of administrative jurisdiction, Badger Army 
          Ammunition Plant, Baraboo, Wisconsin.

          Subtitle H--Miscellaneous Access and Property Issues

Sec. 3081. Ensuring public access to the summit of Rattlesnake Mountain 
          in the Hanford Reach National Monument.
Sec. 3082. Anchorage, Alaska, conveyance of reversionary interests.
Sec. 3083. Release of property interests in Bureau of Land Management 
          land conveyed to the State of Oregon for establishment of 
          Hermiston Agricultural Research and Extension Center.

                    Subtitle I--Water Infrastructure

Sec. 3087. Bureau of Reclamation hydropower development.
Sec. 3088. Toledo Bend Hydroelectric Project.
Sec. 3089. East Bench Irrigation District contract extension.

                        Subtitle J--Other Matters

Sec. 3091. Commemoration of centennial of World War I.
Sec. 3092. Miscellaneous issues related to Las Vegas valley public land 
          and Tule Springs Fossil Beds National Monument.
Sec. 3093. National Desert Storm and Desert Shield Memorial.
Sec. 3094. Extension of legislative authority for establishment of 
          commemorative work in honor of former President John Adams.
Sec. 3095. Refinancing of Pacific Coast groundfish fishing capacity 
          reduction loan.
Sec. 3096. Payments in lieu of taxes.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

       TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

          Subtitle A--National Security Programs Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.

    Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Design and use of prototypes of nuclear weapons for 
          intelligence purposes.
Sec. 3112. Plutonium pit production capacity.
Sec. 3113. Life-cycle cost estimates of certain atomic energy defense 
          capital assets.
Sec. 3114. Expansion of requirement for independent cost estimates on 
          life extension programs and new nuclear facilities.
Sec. 3115. Definition of baseline and threshold for stockpile life 
          extension project.
Sec. 3116. Authorized personnel levels of National Nuclear Security 
          Administration.
Sec. 3117. Cost estimation and program evaluation by National Nuclear 
          Security Administration.
Sec. 3118. Cost containment for Uranium Capabilities Replacement 
          Project.
Sec. 3119. Production of nuclear warhead for long-range standoff weapon.
Sec. 3120. Disposition of weapons-usable plutonium.
Sec. 3121. Limitation on availability of funds for Office of the 
          Administrator for Nuclear Security.
Sec. 3122. Limitation on availability of funds for certain 
          nonproliferation activities between the United States and the 
          Russian Federation.
Sec. 3123. Identification of amounts required for uranium technology 
          sustainment in budget materials for fiscal year 2016.

                      Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

Sec. 3131. Analysis and report on W88 Alt 370 program high explosives 
          options.
Sec. 3132. Analysis of existing facilities and sense of Congress with 
          respect to plutonium strategy.
Sec. 3133. Plan for verification and monitoring of proliferation of 
          nuclear weapons and fissile material.
Sec. 3134. Comments of Administrator for Nuclear Security and Chairman 
          of Nuclear Weapons Council on final report of Congressional 
          Advisory Panel on the Governance of the Nuclear Security 
          Enterprise.

                        Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 3141. Establishment of Advisory Board on Toxic Substances and 
          Worker Health; extension of authority of Office of Ombudsman 
          for Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation 
          Program.
Sec. 3142. Technical corrections to Atomic Energy Defense Act.
Sec. 3143. Technical corrections to National Nuclear Security 
          Administration Act.
Sec. 3144. Technology Commercialization Fund.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.
Sec. 3202. Inspector General of Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
Sec. 3203. Number of employees of Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
          Board.

                  TITLE XXXIV--NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES

Sec. 3401. Authorization of appropriations.

                   TITLE XXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3501. Authorization of appropriations for national security aspects 
          of the Merchant Marine for fiscal year 2015.
Sec. 3502. Floating dry docks.
Sec. 3503. Sense of Congress on the role of domestic maritime industry 
          in national security.
Sec. 3504. United States Merchant Marine Academy Board of Visitors.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.

         TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
          contingency operations.

                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
          operations.

                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.

                     TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.

                    TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4601. Military construction.
Sec. 4602. Military construction for overseas contingency operations.

      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national security programs.
SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES.
    In this Act, the term ``congressional defense committees'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United 
States Code.
SEC. 4. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THIS ACT.
    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purposes of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, jointly submitted for printing in the 
Congressional Record by the Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget 
Committees, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to 
the vote on passage in the House acting first on the conference report 
or amendment between the Houses.
SEC. 5. EXPLANATORY STATEMENT.
    The explanatory statement regarding this Act, printed in the House 
section of the Congressional Record on or about December 3, 2014, by 
the Chairman of the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives and the Chairman of the Committee on Armed Services of 
the Senate, shall have the same effect with respect to the 
implementation of this Act as if it were a joint explanatory statement 
of a committee of conference.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS
                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of Appropriations.

                        Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Plan on modernization of UH-60A aircraft of Army National 
          Guard.

                        Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Construction of San Antonio class amphibious ship.
Sec. 122. Limitation on availability of funds for mission modules for 
          Littoral Combat Ship.
Sec. 123. Extension of limitation on availability of funds for Littoral 
          Combat Ship.
Sec. 124. Report on test evaluation master plan for Littoral Combat Ship 
          seaframes and mission modules.
Sec. 125. Airborne electronic attack capabilities.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 131. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of MQ-1 
          Predator aircraft.
Sec. 132. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of U-2 
          aircraft.
Sec. 133. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of A-10 
          aircraft.
Sec. 134. Prohibition on cancellation or modification of avionics 
          modernization program for C-130 aircraft.
Sec. 135. Limitation on availability of funds for retirement of Air 
          Force aircraft.
Sec. 136. Limitation on availability of funds for retirement of E-3 
          airborne warning and control system aircraft.
Sec. 137. Limitation on availability of funds for divestment or transfer 
          of KC-10 aircraft.
Sec. 138. Limitation on availability of funds for transfer of Air Force 
          C-130H and C-130J aircraft.
Sec. 139. Limitation on availability of funds for transfer of Air Force 
          KC-135 tankers.
Sec. 140. Report on C-130 aircraft.
Sec. 141. Report on status of F-16 aircraft.
Sec. 142. Report on options to modernize or replace T-1A aircraft.
Sec. 143. Report on status of air-launched cruise missile capabilities.

        Subtitle E--Defense-Wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 151. Additional oversight requirements for the undersea mobility 
          acquisition program of the United States Special Operations 
          Command.
Sec. 152. Plan for modernization or replacement of digital avionic 
          equipment.
Sec. 153. Comptroller General report on F-35 aircraft acquisition 
          program.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 
for procurement for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air 
Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4101.

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

    SEC. 111. PLAN ON MODERNIZATION OF UH-60A AIRCRAFT OF ARMY NATIONAL 
      GUARD.
    (a) Plan.--Not later than March 15, 2015, the Secretary of the Army 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a prioritized plan 
for modernizing the entire fleet of UH-60A aircraft of the Army 
National Guard.
    (b) Additional Elements.--The plan under subsection (a) shall set 
forth the following:
        (1) A detailed timeline for the modernization of the entire 
    fleet of UH-60A aircraft of the Army National Guard.
        (2) The number of UH-60L, UH-60L Digital, and UH-60M aircraft 
    that the Army National Guard will possess upon completion of such 
    modernization plan.
        (3) The cost, by year, associated with such modernization plan.

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

    SEC. 121. CONSTRUCTION OF SAN ANTONIO CLASS AMPHIBIOUS SHIP.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Navy may enter into a 
contract beginning with the fiscal year 2015 program year for the 
procurement of one San Antonio class amphibious ship. The Secretary may 
employ incremental funding for such procurement.
    (b) Condition on Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under such contract for any fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2015 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for such fiscal year.
    SEC. 122. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR MISSION MODULES 
      FOR LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for the procurement of 
additional mission modules for the Littoral Combat Ship program may be 
obligated or expended until the Secretary of the Navy submits to the 
congressional defense committees each of the following:
        (1) The Milestone B program goals for cost, schedule, and 
    performance for each module.
        (2) Certification by the Director of Operational Test and 
    Evaluation with respect to the total number for each module type 
    that is required to perform all necessary operational testing.
    SEC. 123. EXTENSION OF LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR 
      LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP.
    Section 124(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 693) is amended by striking 
``this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2014'' and 
inserting ``this Act, the Carl Levin and Howard P. `Buck' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015, or otherwise 
made available for fiscal years 2014 or 2015''.
    SEC. 124. REPORT ON TEST EVALUATION MASTER PLAN FOR LITTORAL COMBAT 
      SHIP SEAFRAMES AND MISSION MODULES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
test evaluation master plan for the seaframes and mission modules for 
the Littoral Combat Ship program.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
        (1) A description of the progress of the Navy with respect to 
    the test evaluation master plan.
        (2) An assessment of whether or not completion of the test 
    evaluation master plan will demonstrate operational effectiveness 
    and operational suitability for both seaframes and each mission 
    module.
    SEC. 125. AIRBORNE ELECTRONIC ATTACK CAPABILITIES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that the 
Navy retains the option of procuring more EA-18G aircraft in the event 
that the Secretary determines that further analysis of airborne 
electronic attack force structure indicates that the Navy should make 
such a procurement.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than March 2, 2015, the Secretary shall 
provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on--
        (1) the options available to the Navy for ensuring that the 
    Navy will not be precluded from procuring more EA-18G aircraft 
    based on a determination made under subsection (a); and
        (2) an update on the progress of the Navy in conducting an 
    analysis of emerging requirements for airborne electronic attack.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

    SEC. 131. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF 
      MQ-1 PREDATOR AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided by subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2015 for the Air Force may be used during 
fiscal year 2015 to retire any MQ-1 Predator aircraft.
    (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to a damaged MQ-1 Predator aircraft if the Secretary determines that 
repairing such aircraft is not economically viable.
    SEC. 132. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF U-
      2 AIRCRAFT.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for the Department of 
Defense may be obligated or expended to make significant changes to 
retire, prepare to retire, or place in storage U-2 aircraft.
    SEC. 133. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF A-
      10 AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Prohibition on Retirement.--None of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 
2015 for the Air Force may be obligated or expended to retire, prepare 
to retire, or place in storage any A-10 aircraft, except for such 
aircraft the Secretary of the Air Force, as of April 9, 2013, planned 
to retire.
    (b) Limitation on Manning Levels.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided under paragraph (2), none 
    of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
    made available for fiscal year 2015 for the Air Force may be 
    obligated or expended to make significant changes to manning levels 
    with respect to any A-10 aircraft squadrons.
        (2) Exception.--
            (A) Back up flying status.--The Secretary of Defense may 
        authorize the Secretary of the Air Force to move up to 36 A-10 
        aircraft in the active component to backup flying status, and 
        make conforming personnel adjustments, for the duration of 
        fiscal year 2015 if--
                (i) on or before the date that is 45 days after the 
            date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
            submits to the congressional defense committees the 
            certification described in subparagraph (B); and
                (ii) a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date 
            of such submittal.
            (B) Certification.--A certification described in this 
        subparagraph is a certification that the Secretary of Defense 
        has--
                (i) received the results of the independent assessment 
            under subsection (c) by the Director of Cost Assessment and 
            Program Evaluation regarding alternative ways to provide 
            manpower during fiscal year 2015 to maintain the fighter 
            fleet of the Air Force and to field F-35 aircraft; and
                (ii) determined, after giving consideration to such 
            assessment, that an action to move A-10 aircraft under 
            subparagraph (A) is required to avoid--

                    (I) significantly degrading the readiness of the 
                fighter fleet of the Air Force; or
                    (II) significantly delaying the planned fielding of 
                F-35 aircraft.

    (c) Independent Assessment.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of Cost Assessment and 
Program Evaluation shall conduct an independent assessment of 
alternative ways to provide manpower during fiscal year 2015 to 
maintain the fighter fleet of the Air Force and to field F-35 aircraft. 
In conducting such assessment, the Director shall give consideration to 
the implementation approaches proposed by the Air Force and to other 
alternatives, including the retirement of other aircraft and the use of 
civilian or contractor maintainers on an interim basis for A-10 
aircraft, F-35 aircraft, or other aircraft.
    (d) Comptroller General Study.--
        (1) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
    conduct an independent study of the platforms used to conduct the 
    close air support mission in light of the recommendation of the Air 
    Force to retire the A-10 fleet.
        (2) Report.--Not later than March 30, 2015, the Comptroller 
    General shall brief the congressional defense committees on the 
    preliminary findings of the study under paragraph (1), with a 
    report to follow as soon as practicable, that includes an 
    assessment of--
            (A) the alternatives considered by the Air Force that led 
        to the recommendation to retire the A-10 fleet, including the 
        relative costs, benefits, and assumptions associated with the 
        alternatives to such retirement;
            (B) any capability gaps in close air support that would be 
        created by such retirement and to what extent the Department of 
        Defense has plans to address such capability gaps; and
            (C) any capability gaps in air superiority or global strike 
        that could be created by the added cost to the Air Force of 
        retaining the A-10 fleet.
    SEC. 134. PROHIBITION ON CANCELLATION OR MODIFICATION OF AVIONICS 
      MODERNIZATION PROGRAM FOR C-130 AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Prohibition.--
        (1) In general.--None of the funds authorized to be 
    appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal 
    year 2015 for the Air Force may be used to--
            (A) take any action to cancel or modify the avionics 
        modernization program of record for C-130 aircraft; or
            (B) except as provided by paragraph (2), initiate an 
        alternative communication, navigation, surveillance, and air 
        traffic management program for C-130 aircraft that is designed 
        or intended to replace the avionics modernization program 
        described in subparagraph (A).
        (2) Exception.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the 
    prohibition in paragraph (1)(B) if the Secretary certifies to the 
    congressional defense committees that the program described in such 
    subparagraph is required to operate C-130 aircraft in airspace 
    controlled by the Federal Aviation Administration or airspace 
    controlled by the government of a foreign country.
    (b) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for operation and 
maintenance for the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, not more 
than 85 percent may be obligated or expended until a period of 15 days 
has elapsed following the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force 
certifies to the congressional defense committees that the Secretary 
has obligated the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available for fiscal years prior to fiscal year 2015 for the avionics 
modernization program of record for C-130 aircraft.
    SEC. 135. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF AIR 
      FORCE AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for the Air 
Force may be obligated or expended to retire, prepare to retire, or 
place in storage any aircraft of the Air Force, except for such 
aircraft the Secretary of the Air Force planned to retire as of April 
9, 2013, until a period of 60 days has elapsed following the date on 
which the Secretary submits the report under subsection (b)(1).
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the appropriate 
    contributions of the regular Air Force, the Air National Guard, and 
    the Air Force Reserve to the total force structure of the Air 
    Force.
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following:
            (A) A separate presentation of mix of forces for each 
        mission and aircraft platform of the Air Force.
            (B) An analysis and recommendations for not less than 80 
        percent of the missions and aircraft platforms described in 
        subparagraph (A).
    SEC. 136. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF E-3 
      AIRBORNE WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for the 
Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to make significant 
changes to manning levels with respect to any E-3 airborne warning and 
control systems aircraft, or to retire, prepare to retire, or place in 
storage any such aircraft.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit or otherwise affect the requirement to maintain the 
operational capability of the E-3 airborne warning and control system 
aircraft.
    SEC. 137. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR DIVESTMENT OR 
      TRANSFER OF KC-10 AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for the Air 
Force may be obligated or expended to transfer, divest, or prepare to 
divest any KC-10 aircraft until a period of 60 days has elapsed 
following the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits to the 
congressional defense committees an assessment of the costs and 
benefits of the proposed divestment or transfer.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment referred to in subsection (a) shall 
include, at a minimum, the following elements:
        (1) A five-year plan for the force structure laydown of all 
    tanker aircraft.
        (2) Current and future air refueling and cargo transportation 
    requirements, broken down by aircraft, needed to meet the global 
    reach and global power objectives of the Department of Defense, 
    including how such objectives relate to supporting the 2012 Defense 
    Strategic Guidance.
        (3) An operational risk assessment and mitigation strategy that 
    evaluates the ability of the military to meet the requirements and 
    objectives stipulated in the Guidance for Employment of the Force 
    of the Department of Defense, the Joint Strategic Capabilities 
    Plan, and all steady-state rotational and warfighting surge 
    contingency operational planning documents of the commanders of the 
    geographical combatant commands.
    SEC. 138. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OF AIR 
      FORCE C-130H AND C-130J AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for the Air 
Force may be obligated or expended to transfer from one facility of the 
Department of Defense to another any C-130H or C-130J aircraft until a 
period of 60 days has elapsed following the date on which the Secretary 
of the Air Force submits to the congressional defense committees an 
assessment of the costs and benefits of the proposed transfer.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment referred to in subsection (a) shall 
include, at a minimum, the following elements:
        (1) A five-year plan for the force structure laydown of C-
    130H2, C-130H3, and C-130J aircraft.
        (2) An identification of how such plan deviates from the total 
    force structure proposal of the Secretary described in section 
    1059(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1939).
        (3) An explanation of why such plan deviates, if in any detail, 
    from such proposal.
        (4) An assessment of the national security benefits and any 
    other expected benefits of the proposed transfers under subsection 
    (a), including benefits for the facilities expected to receive the 
    transferred aircraft.
        (5) An assessment of the costs of the proposed transfers, 
    including the impact of the proposed transfers on the facilities 
    from which the aircraft will be transferred.
        (6) An analysis of the recommended basing alignment that 
    demonstrates that the recommendation is the most effective and 
    efficient alternative for such basing alignment.
        (7) For units equipped with special capabilities, including the 
    modular airborne firefighting system capability, a certification 
    that missions using such capabilities will not be negatively 
    affected by the proposed transfers.
    (c) Comptroller General Report.--Not later than 60 days after the 
date on which the Secretary submits the report required under 
subsection (a), the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a sufficiency review of 
such report, including any findings and recommendations relating to 
such review.
    SEC. 139. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OF AIR 
      FORCE KC-135 TANKERS.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for the Air 
Force may be obligated or expended to transfer from Joint Base Pearl 
Harbor-Hickam to another facility of the Department of Defense any KC-
135 aircraft until a period of 60 days has elapsed following the date 
on which the Secretary of the Air Force submits to the congressional 
defense committees an assessment of the costs and benefits of the 
proposed transfer.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment referred to in subsection (a) shall 
include, at a minimum, the following elements:
        (1) A recommended basing alignment of Joint Base Pearl Harbor-
    Hickam KC-135 aircraft.
        (2) An identification of how, and an explanation of why, such 
    recommended basing alignment deviates, if in any detail, from the 
    current basing plan.
        (3) An assessment of the national security benefits and any 
    other expected benefits of the proposed transfer under subsection 
    (a), including benefits for the facilities expected to receive the 
    transferred aircraft.
        (4) An assessment of the costs of the proposed transfer, 
    including the impact of the proposed transfer on the facilities 
    from which the aircraft will be transferred.
        (5) An analysis of the recommended basing alignment that 
    demonstrates that the recommendation is the most effective and 
    efficient alternative for such basing alignment.
    SEC. 140. REPORT ON C-130 AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a report including a complete 
analysis and fielding plan for C-130 aircraft.
    (b) Content.--The fielding plan submitted under subsection (a) 
shall include specific details of the plan of the Secretary to maintain 
intra-theater airlift capacity and capability within both the active 
and reserve components, including the modernization and 
recapitalization plan for C-130H and C-130J aircraft.
    SEC. 141. REPORT ON STATUS OF F-16 AIRCRAFT.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the status and location, and any plans 
to change during the period of the future-years defense program the 
status or locations, of all F-16 aircraft in the inventory of the Air 
Force.
    SEC. 142. REPORT ON OPTIONS TO MODERNIZE OR REPLACE T-1A AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on options for the 
modernization or replacement of the T-1A aircraft capability.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) A description of options for--
            (A) new procurement;
            (B) conducting a service life extension program on existing 
        aircraft;
            (C) replacing organic aircraft with leased aircraft or 
        services for the longer term; and
            (D) replacing organic aircraft with leased aircraft or 
        services while the Secretary executes a new procurement or 
        service life extension program.
        (2) An evaluation of the ability of each alternative to meet 
    future training requirements.
        (3) Estimates of life cycle costs.
        (4) A description of potential cost savings from merging a T-1A 
    capability replacement program with other programs of the Air 
    Force, such as the Companion Trainer Program.
    SEC. 143. REPORT ON STATUS OF AIR-LAUNCHED CRUISE MISSILE 
      CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) The capability provided by the nuclear-capable, air-
    launched cruise missile is critical to maintaining a credible and 
    effective air-delivery leg of the nuclear triad, preserving the 
    ability to respond to geopolitical and technical surprise, and 
    reassuring allies of the United States through credible extended 
    deterrence.
        (2) In the fiscal year 2015 budget request of the Air Force, 
    the Secretary of the Air Force delayed development of the long-
    range standoff weapon, the follow-on for the air-launched cruise 
    missile, by three years.
        (3) The Secretary plans to sustain the current air-launched 
    cruise missile, known as the AGM-86, until approximately 2030, with 
    multiple service life-extension programs required to preserve but 
    not enhance the existing capabilities of the air-launched cruise 
    missile.
        (4) The AGM-86 was initially developed in the 1970s and 
    deployed in the 1980s.
        (5) The average age of the inventory of air-launched cruise 
    missiles is more than 30 years old.
        (6) The operating environment, particularly the sophistication 
    of integrated air defenses, has evolved substantially since the 
    inception of the air-launched cruise missile.
        (7) The AGM-86 is no longer in production and the inventory of 
    spare bodies for required annual testing continues to diminish, 
    posing serious challenges for long-term sustainment.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force, in 
    coordination with the Commander of the United States Strategic 
    Command, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report on the status of the current air-launched cruise missile and 
    the development of the follow-on system, the long-range standoff 
    weapon, in accordance with section 217 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 
    Stat. 706).
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following:
            (A) An assessment of the effectiveness and survivability of 
        the air-launched cruise missile through 2030, including the 
        impact of any degradation on the ability of the United States 
        Strategic Command to meet deterrence requirements, including 
        the number of targets held at risk by the air-launched cruise 
        missile or the burdens placed on other legs of the nuclear 
        triad.
            (B) A description of age-related failure trends, an 
        assessment of potential age-related fleet-wide reliability and 
        supportability problems, and the estimated costs for sustaining 
        the air-launched cruise missile.
            (C) A detailed plan, including initial cost estimates, for 
        the development and deployment of the follow-on system that 
        will achieve initial operational capability before 2030.
            (D) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
        alternative development strategies, including initial cost 
        estimates, that would achieve full operational capability 
        before 2030.
            (E) An assessment of current testing requirements and the 
        availability of test bodies to sustain the air-launched cruise 
        missile over the long term.
            (F) A description of the extent to which the airframe and 
        other related components can be completed independent of the 
        payload, as determined by the Nuclear Weapons Council 
        established by section 179 of title 10, United States Code.
            (G) A statement of the risks assumed by not fielding an 
        operational replacement for the existing air-launched cruise 
        missile by 2030.
        (3) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in classified form, but may include an unclassified 
    summary.

       Subtitle E--Defense-Wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

    SEC. 151. ADDITIONAL OVERSIGHT REQUIREMENTS FOR THE UNDERSEA 
      MOBILITY ACQUISITION PROGRAM OF THE UNITED STATES SPECIAL 
      OPERATIONS COMMAND.
    Section 144 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1325) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or the Joint 
        Capabilities Integration and Development system'' before the 
        semicolon; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, or other comparable 
        and qualified entity selected by the Director'' before the 
        semicolon;
        (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
        (3) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsection (c):
    ``(c) Technology Roadmap.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Commander shall develop a plan 
    consisting of a technology roadmap for undersea mobility 
    capabilities that includes the following:
            ``(A) A description of the current capabilities provided by 
        covered elements as of the date of the plan.
            ``(B) An identification and description of the requirements 
        of the Commander for future undersea mobility platforms.
            ``(C) An identification of resources necessary to fulfill 
        the requirements identified in subparagraph (B).
            ``(D) A description of the technology readiness levels of 
        any covered element currently under development as of the date 
        of the plan.
            ``(E) An identification of any potential gaps or projected 
        shortfall in capability, along with steps to mitigate any such 
        gap or shortfall.
            ``(F) Any other matters the Commander determines 
        appropriate.
        ``(2) Submission.--The Commander shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees the plan under paragraph (1) at 
    the same time as the Under Secretary submits the first report under 
    subsection (a)(2) following the date of the enactment of the Carl 
    Levin and Howard P. `Buck' McKeon National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2015.''.
    SEC. 152. PLAN FOR MODERNIZATION OR REPLACEMENT OF DIGITAL AVIONIC 
      EQUIPMENT.
    (a) Plan Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a plan for the potential modernization 
or replacement of digital avionics equipment, including use of 
commercial-off-the-shelf digital avionics equipment, to meet the 
equipment requirements under the Next Generation Air Transportation 
System of the Federal Aviation Administration.
    (b) Elements.--The plan required under subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) A description of the requirements imposed on aircraft of 
    the Department of Defense by the Federal Aviation Administration 
    transition to the equipment requirements described in subsection 
    (a), including--
            (A) an identification of the type and number of aircraft 
        that the Secretary will need to upgrade;
            (B) a definition of the upgrades needed for such aircraft; 
        and
            (C) the schedule required for the Secretary to make such 
        upgrades in time to meet such requirements.
        (2) A description of options for--
            (A) acquiring new equipment, including--
                (i) new procurement; and
                (ii) leasing equipment and installation and other 
            services, including the use of public-private partnerships; 
            and
            (B) modernizing existing equipment.
        (3) An evaluation of the ability of each option to meet future 
    operational requirements and to meet the equipment requirements 
    described in subsection (a).
        (4) An estimated timeline to modernize or replace the digital 
    avionics equipment in each military department or other element of 
    the Department.
        (5) The estimated costs of options to modernize or replace the 
    avionics equipment in each military department or other element of 
    the Department in order to meet such requirements.
    SEC. 153. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON F-35 AIRCRAFT ACQUISITION 
      PROGRAM.
    (a) Annual Report.--Not later than April 15, 2015, and each year 
thereafter until the F-35 aircraft acquisition program enters into 
full-rate production, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report reviewing 
such program.
    (b) Matters Included.--Each report under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) The extent to which the F-35 aircraft acquisition program 
    is meeting cost, schedule, and performance goals.
        (2) The progress and results of developmental and operational 
    testing.
        (3) The progress of the procurement and manufacturing of F-35 
    aircraft.
        (4) An assessment of any plans or efforts of the Secretary of 
    Defense to improve the efficiency of the procurement and 
    manufacturing of F-35 aircraft.

         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of Appropriations.

     Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Modification of authority for prizes for advanced technology 
          achievements.
Sec. 212. Modification of Manufacturing Technology Program.
Sec. 213. Revision of requirement for acquisition programs to maintain 
          defense research facility records.
Sec. 214. Treatment by Department of Defense Test Resource Management 
          Center of significant modifications to test and evaluation 
          facilities and resources.
Sec. 215. Revision to the service requirement under the Science, 
          Mathematics, and Research for Transformation Defense Education 
          Program.
Sec. 216. Limitation on availability of funds for armored multi-purpose 
          vehicle program.
Sec. 217. Limitation on availability of funds for unmanned carrier-
          launched airborne surveillance and strike system.
Sec. 218. Limitation on availability of funds for airborne 
          reconnaissance systems.
Sec. 219. Limitation on availability of funds for retirement of Joint 
          Surveillance and Target Attack Radar Systems aircraft.

                           Subtitle C--Reports

Sec. 221. Reduction in frequency of reporting by Deputy Assistant 
          Secretary of Defense for Systems Engineering.
Sec. 222. Independent assessment of interagency biodefense research and 
          development.
Sec. 223. Briefing on modeling and simulation technological and 
          industrial base in support of requirements of Department of 
          Defense.

                        Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 231. Modification to requirement for contractor cost sharing in 
          pilot program to include technology protection features during 
          research and development of certain defense systems.
Sec. 232. Pilot program on assignment to Defense Advanced Research 
          Projects Agency of private sector personnel with critical 
          research and development expertise.
Sec. 233. Pilot program on enhancement of preparation of dependents of 
          members of Armed Forces for careers in science, technology, 
          engineering, and mathematics.
Sec. 234. Sense of Congress on helicopter health and usage monitoring 
          system of the Army.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation as specified in the funding table in section 4201.

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

    SEC. 211. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR PRIZES FOR ADVANCED 
      TECHNOLOGY ACHIEVEMENTS.
    (a) Modification of Limit on Amount of Awards.--Subsection (c)(1) 
of section 2374a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``The total amount'' and all that follows through the period 
at the end and inserting the following: ``No prize competition may 
result in the award of a cash prize of more than $10,000,000.''.
    (b) Acceptance of Funds.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) 
    and (g), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
    subsection (e):
    ``(e) Acceptance of Funds.--In addition to such sums as may be 
appropriated or otherwise made available to the Secretary to award 
prizes under this section, the Secretary may accept funds from other 
departments and agencies of the Federal Government, and from State and 
local governments, to award prizes under this section.''.
    (c) Frequency of Reporting.--Subsection (f) of such section, as 
redesignated by subsection (b)(1) of this section, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``each year'' and inserting ``every other 
        year''; and
            (B) by striking ``fiscal year'' and inserting ``two fiscal 
        years'';
        (2) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), 
    by striking ``a fiscal year'' and inserting ``a period of two 
    fiscal years''; and
        (3) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Annual'' and 
    inserting ``Biennial''.
    SEC. 212. MODIFICATION OF MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM.
    (a) Modification of Joint Defense Manufacturing Technology Panel 
Reporting Requirement.--Subsection (e)(5) of section 2521 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``the Assistant Secretary of 
Defense for Research and Engineering'' and inserting ``one or more 
individuals designated by the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics for purposes of this 
paragraph''.
    (b) Decreased Frequency of Update of Five-Year Strategic Plan.--
Subsection (f)(3) of such section is amended by striking ``on a 
biennial basis'' and inserting ``not less frequently than once every 
four years''.
    SEC. 213. REVISION OF REQUIREMENT FOR ACQUISITION PROGRAMS TO 
      MAINTAIN DEFENSE RESEARCH FACILITY RECORDS.
    Section 2364 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (4)--
                (i) by inserting ``and issue'' after ``technology 
            position''; and
                (ii) by striking ``combatant commands'' and inserting 
            ``components of the Department of Defense''; and
            (B) in paragraph (5), by striking ``any position paper'' 
        and all that follows through the period and inserting the 
        following: ``any technological assessment made by a Defense 
        research facility shall be provided to the Defense Technical 
        Information Center repository to support acquisition 
        decisions.''; and
        (2) in subsection (c)--
            (A) by striking ``this section:'' and all that follows 
        through ``(1) The term'' and inserting ``this section, the 
        term'';
            (B) by striking paragraph (2); and
            (C) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as 
        paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively, and moving such 
        paragraphs, as so redesignated, 2 ems to the left.
    SEC. 214. TREATMENT BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TEST RESOURCE 
      MANAGEMENT CENTER OF SIGNIFICANT MODIFICATIONS TO TEST AND 
      EVALUATION FACILITIES AND RESOURCES.
    (a) Review of Proposed Changes.--Subsection (c)(1)(B) of section 
196 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
``Base'' the following: ``, including with respect to the expansion, 
divestment, consolidation, or curtailment of activities,''.
    (b) Elements of Strategic Plans.--Subsection (d)(2) of such section 
is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subparagraph (E) and (F) as subparagraph 
    (F) and (G), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following new 
    subparagraph:
        ``(E) An assessment of plans and business case analyses 
    supporting any significant modification of the test and evaluation 
    facilities and resources of the Department projected, proposed, or 
    recommended by the Secretary of a military department or the head 
    of a Defense Agency for such period, including with respect to the 
    expansion, divestment, consolidation, or curtailment of 
    activities.''.
    (c) Certification of Budgets.--Subsection (e)(1) of such section is 
amended by inserting ``and for the period covered by the future-years 
defense program submitted to Congress under section 221 of this title 
for that fiscal year'' after ``activities for a fiscal year''.
    (d) Assessment of Plans for Facilities.--Such section is further 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and (h) as 
    subsections (g), (h), and (i), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
    subsection (f):
    ``(f) Approval of Certain Modifications.--(1) The Secretary of a 
military department or the head of a Defense Agency with test and 
evaluation responsibilities may not implement a projected, proposed, or 
recommended significant modification of the test and evaluation 
facilities and resources of the Department, including with respect to 
the expansion, divestment, consolidation, or curtailment of activities, 
until--
        ``(A) the Secretary or the head, as the case may be, submits to 
    the Director a business case analysis for such modification; and
        ``(B) the Director reviews such analysis and approves such 
    modification.
    ``(2) The Director shall submit to the Secretary of Defense an 
annual report containing the comments of the Director with respect to 
each business case analysis reviewed under paragraph (1)(B) during the 
year covered by the report.''.
    SEC. 215. REVISION TO THE SERVICE REQUIREMENT UNDER THE SCIENCE, 
      MATHEMATICS, AND RESEARCH FOR TRANSFORMATION DEFENSE EDUCATION 
      PROGRAM.
    Subparagraph (B) of section 2192a(c)(1) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended to read as follows:
        ``(B) in the case of a person not an employee of the Department 
    of Defense, the person shall enter into a written agreement to 
    accept and continue employment for the period of obligated service 
    determined under paragraph (2)--
            ``(i) with the Department; or
            ``(ii) with a public or private entity or organization 
        outside of the Department if the Secretary--
                ``(I) is unable to find an appropriate position for the 
            person within the Department; and
                ``(II) determines that employment of the person with 
            such entity or organization for the purpose of such 
            obligated service would provide a benefit to the 
            Department.''.
    SEC. 216. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR ARMORED MULTI-
      PURPOSE VEHICLE PROGRAM.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for research, 
development, test, and evaluation, Army, for the armored multi-purpose 
vehicle program, not more than 80 percent may be obligated or expended 
until the date on which the Secretary of the Army submits to the 
congressional defense committees the report under subsection (b)(1).
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2015, the Secretary of 
    the Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report on the armored multi-purpose vehicle program.
        (2) Matters included.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) An identification of the existing capability gaps of 
        the M-113 family of vehicles assigned, as of the date of the 
        report, to units outside of combat brigades.
            (B) An identification of the mission roles that are in 
        common between--
                (i) such vehicles assigned to units outside of combat 
            brigades; and
                (ii) the vehicles examined in the armor brigade combat 
            team during the armored multi-purpose vehicle analysis of 
            alternatives.
            (C) The estimated timeline and the rough order of magnitude 
        of funding requirements associated with complete M-113 family 
        of vehicles divestiture within the units outside of combat 
        brigades and the risk associated with delaying the replacement 
        of such vehicles.
            (D) A description of the requirements for force protection, 
        mobility, and size, weight, power, and cooling capacity for the 
        mission roles of M-113 family of vehicles assigned to units 
        outside of combat brigades.
            (E) A discussion of the mission roles of the M-113 family 
        of vehicles assigned to units outside of combat brigades that 
        are comparable to the mission roles of the M-113 family of 
        vehicles assigned to armor brigade combat teams.
            (F) A discussion of whether a one-for-one replacement of 
        the M-113 family of vehicles assigned to units outside of 
        combat brigades is likely.
            (G) With respect to mission roles, a discussion of any 
        substantive distinctions that exist in the capabilities of the 
        M-113 family of vehicles that are needed based on the level of 
        the unit to which the vehicle is assigned (not including combat 
        brigades).
            (H) A discussion of the relative priority of fielding among 
        the mission roles.
            (I) An assessment for the feasibility of incorporating 
        medical wheeled variants within the armor brigade combat teams.
    SEC. 217. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR UNMANNED CARRIER-
      LAUNCHED AIRBORNE SURVEILLANCE AND STRIKE SYSTEM.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for research, 
development, test, and evaluation, Navy, for the unmanned carrier-
launched airborne surveillance and strike system may be obligated or 
expended to award a contract for air vehicle segment development until 
a period of 15 days has elapsed following the date on which the 
Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense committees a 
report that--
        (1) certifies that a review of the requirements for air vehicle 
    segments of the unmanned carrier-launched surveillance and strike 
    system is complete; and
        (2) includes the results of such review.
    (b) Additional Report.--At the same time that the President submits 
to Congress the budget for fiscal year 2017 under section 1105(a) of 
title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a report that--
        (1) identifies the cost and performance trade-offs that the 
    Navy made in arriving at the set of requirements for the air 
    vehicle segments of the unmanned carrier-launched surveillance and 
    strike system, including with respect to strike capability in an 
    anti-access or area denial environment;
        (2) addresses the derivation of requirements for the overall 
    composition of the future carrier air wing, including any 
    contribution made to the intelligence, surveillance, and 
    reconnaissance capabilities of carrier strike groups from non-
    carrier air wing forces, such as the MQ-4C Triton;
        (3) specifies how the Navy derived the plan for achieving the 
    best mix of capabilities for the carrier strike group air wing to 
    conduct representative joint intelligence, surveillance, and 
    reconnaissance strike campaigns in the 2030 timeframe, including 
    how the unmanned carrier-launched surveillance and strike system, 
    F-35C aircraft, EA-18G aircraft, and the aircraft that is proposed 
    to replace the F/A-18E/F (FA-XX) would contribute to the overall 
    capability, including in an anti-access or area denial threat 
    environment;
        (4) defines the acquisition strategy for the unmanned carrier-
    launched surveillance and strike system program and justifies any 
    changes in such strategy from an acquisition strategy for a 
    traditional program that is consistent with Department of Defense 
    Instruction 5000.02; and
        (5) establishes a formal acquisition program cost and schedule 
    baseline to allow the Navy to track unit costs and provide regular 
    reports to Congress on cost, schedule, and performance progress.
    SEC. 218. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR AIRBORNE 
      RECONNAISSANCE SYSTEMS.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for research, 
development, test, and evaluation, Air Force, for imaging and targeting 
support of airborne reconnaissance systems, not more than 25 percent 
may be obligated or expended until the date on which the Secretary of 
the Air Force submits to the appropriate congressional committees--
        (1) a plan regarding using such funds for such purpose during 
    fiscal year 2015; and
        (2) a strategic plan for the funding of advanced airborne 
    reconnaissance technologies supporting manned and unmanned systems.
    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    Senate.
    SEC. 219. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF 
      JOINT SURVEILLANCE AND TARGET ATTACK RADAR SYSTEMS AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for the Air 
Force may be used to make any significant changes to manning levels 
with respect to any operational Joint Surveillance and Target Attack 
Radar Systems aircraft or take any action to retire or to prepare to 
retire such aircraft until the date that is 30 days after the date on 
which the Secretary of the Air Force submits to the congressional 
defense committees the report required by subsection (b).
    (b) Report.--The Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report that includes the following:
        (1) An update of the results of the analysis of alternatives 
    for recapitalizing the current Joint Surveillance and Target Attack 
    Radar Systems capability.
        (2) An assessment of the cost and schedule of developing and 
    fielding a new aircraft and radar system to replace the current 
    Joint Surveillance and Target Attack Radar Systems aircraft that 
    would deliver two replacement aircraft to the Joint Surveillance 
    and Target Attack Radar Systems aircraft operating base by fiscal 
    year 2019.

                          Subtitle C--Reports

    SEC. 221. REDUCTION IN FREQUENCY OF REPORTING BY DEPUTY ASSISTANT 
      SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR SYSTEMS ENGINEERING.
    (a) In General.--Section 139b(d) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as paragraphs (3) 
    and (4), respectively;
        (2) in paragraph (3), as so redesignated, by striking ``In 
    General.--'' and all that follows through ``Each report'' and 
    inserting ``Contents.-- Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
    or (2)'';
        (3) by inserting before paragraph (3), as so redesignated, the 
    following new paragraphs (1) and (2):
        ``(1) Annual report by deputy assistant secretary of defense 
    for developmental test and evaluation.--Not later than March 31 of 
    each year, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
    Developmental Test and Evaluation shall submit to the congressional 
    defense committees a report on the activities undertaken pursuant 
    to subsection (a) during the preceding year.
        ``(2) Biennial report by deputy assistant secretary of defense 
    for systems engineering.--Not later than March 31 of every other 
    year, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Systems 
    Engineering shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report on the activities undertaken pursuant to subsection (b) 
    during the preceding two-year period.''; and
        (4) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Annual Report'' 
    and inserting ``Annual and Biennial Reports''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and the first report 
submitted under paragraph (2) of section 139b(d) of such title, as 
added by subsection (a)(3), shall be submitted not later than March 31, 
2015.
    SEC. 222. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF INTERAGENCY BIODEFENSE RESEARCH 
      AND DEVELOPMENT.
    (a) Independent Assessment Required.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall enter into a contract with an entity that is not part of the 
Department of Defense to conduct an assessment of biodefense research 
and development activities at the National Interagency Biodefense 
Campus.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment conducted under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) Identification and assessment of such legal, regulatory, 
    management, and practice barriers as may reduce the effectiveness 
    and efficiency of organizations on the Campus to perform designated 
    missions, including such barriers as may exist with respect to the 
    following:
            (A) Sharing of funds for intramural and extramural research 
        and other activities--
                (i) within and between the Defense Agencies and the 
            military departments;
                (ii) between the Department of Defense and other 
            Federal agencies; and
                (iii) between the Department of Defense and the private 
            sector.
            (B) Sharing in efforts related to the construction, 
        modernization, and maintenance of research facilities--
                (i) within and between the Defense Agencies and the 
            military departments;
                (ii) between the Department of Defense and other 
            Federal agencies; and
                (iii) between the Department of Defense and the private 
            sector.
            (C) Exchange and mobility of personnel--
                (i) within and between the Defense Agencies and the 
            military departments;
                (ii) between the Department of Defense and other 
            Federal agencies; and
                (iii) between the Department of Defense and the private 
            sector.
            (D) Technology transfer and transition--
                (i) within and between the Defense Agencies and the 
            military departments;
                (ii) between the Department of Defense and other 
            Federal agencies; and
                (iii) between the Department of Defense and the private 
            sector.
        (2) Formulation of recommendations for such legal, regulatory, 
    management, and practices as may support attempts to overcome the 
    barriers identified under paragraph (1).
    (c) Coordination.--The assessment conducted under subsection (a) 
shall be conducted in coordination with the following:
        (1) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
        (2) The Secretary of Health and Human Services.
        (3) Such other private and public sector organizations as the 
    Secretary considers appropriate.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 540 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees the findings of the entity that 
conducted the assessment under subsection (a) with respect to such 
assessment.
    (e) Defense Agency Defined.--In this section, the term ``Defense 
Agency'' has the meaning given such term in section 101 of title 10, 
United States Code.
    SEC. 223. BRIEFING ON MODELING AND SIMULATION TECHNOLOGICAL AND 
      INDUSTRIAL BASE IN SUPPORT OF REQUIREMENTS OF DEPARTMENT OF 
      DEFENSE.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
Logistics shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
House of Representatives and the Senate a briefing that provides--
        (1) an update to the assessment, findings, and recommendations 
    in the report submitted under section 1059 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
    Stat. 2465); and
        (2) the status of implementing any such recommendations.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

    SEC. 231. MODIFICATION TO REQUIREMENT FOR CONTRACTOR COST SHARING 
      IN PILOT PROGRAM TO INCLUDE TECHNOLOGY PROTECTION FEATURES DURING 
      RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF CERTAIN DEFENSE SYSTEMS.
    Section 243(b) of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is 
amended in the matter following paragraph (2)--
        (1) by striking ``at least one-half'' and inserting ``half''; 
    and
        (2) by inserting ``, or such other portion of such cost as the 
    Secretary considers appropriate upon showing of good cause'' after 
    ``such activities''.
    SEC. 232. PILOT PROGRAM ON ASSIGNMENT TO DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH 
      PROJECTS AGENCY OF PRIVATE SECTOR PERSONNEL WITH CRITICAL 
      RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPERTISE.
    (a) Pilot Program Authorized.--In accordance with the provisions of 
this section, the Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects 
Agency may carry out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
advisability of temporarily assigning covered individuals with 
significant technical expertise in research and development areas of 
critical importance to defense missions to the Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency to lead research or development projects of 
the Agency.
    (b) Assignment of Covered Individuals.--
        (1) Number of individuals assigned.--Under the pilot program, 
    the Director may assign covered individuals to the Agency as 
    described in subsection (a), but may not have more than five 
    covered individuals so assigned at any given time.
        (2) Period of assignment.--
            (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the Director 
        may, under the pilot program, assign a covered individual 
        described in subsection (a) to lead research and development 
        projects of the Agency for a period of not more than two years.
            (B) The Director may extend the assignment of a covered 
        individual for one additional period of not more than two years 
        as the Director considers appropriate.
        (3) Application of certain provisions of law.--
            (A) Except as otherwise provided in this section, the 
        Director shall carry out the pilot program in accordance with 
        the provisions of subchapter VI of chapter 33 of title 5, 
        United States Code, except that, for purposes of the pilot 
        program, the term ``other organization'', as used in such 
        subchapter, shall be deemed to include a covered entity.
            (B) A covered individual employed by a covered entity who 
        is assigned to the Agency under the pilot program is deemed to 
        be an employee of the Department of Defense for purposes of the 
        following provisions of law:
                (i) Chapter 73 of title 5, United States Code.
                (ii) Sections 201, 203, 205, 207, 208, 209, 603, 606, 
            607, 643, 654, 1905, and 1913 of title 18, United States 
            Code.
                (iii) Sections 1343, 1344, and 1349(b) of title 31, 
            United States Code.
                (iv) Chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code 
            (commonly known as the ``Federal Tort Claims Act''), and 
            any other Federal tort liability statute.
                (v) The Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. 
            App.).
                (vi) Section 1043 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
                (vii) Chapter 21 of title 41, United States Code.
        (4) Pay and supervision.--A covered individual employed by a 
    covered entity who is assigned to the Agency under the pilot 
    program--
            (A) may continue to receive pay and benefits from such 
        covered entity with or without reimbursement by the Agency;
            (B) is not entitled to pay from the Agency; and
            (C) shall be subject to supervision by the Director in all 
        duties performed for the Agency under the pilot program.
    (c) Conflicts of Interest.--
        (1) Practices and procedures required.--The Director shall 
    develop practices and procedures to manage conflicts of interest 
    and the appearance of conflicts of interest that could arise 
    through assignments under the pilot program.
        (2) Elements.--The practices and procedures required by 
    paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum, the requirement that 
    each covered individual assigned to the Agency under the pilot 
    program shall sign an agreement that provides for the following:
            (A) The nondisclosure of any trade secrets or other 
        nonpublic or proprietary information which is of commercial 
        value to the covered entity from which such covered individual 
        is assigned.
            (B) The assignment of rights to intellectual property 
        developed in the course of any research or development project 
        under the pilot program--
                (i) to the Agency and its contracting partners in 
            accordance with applicable provisions of law regarding 
            intellectual property rights; and
                (ii) not to the covered individual or the covered 
            entity from which such covered individual is assigned.
            (C) Such additional measures as the Director considers 
        necessary to carry out the program in accordance with Federal 
        law.
    (d) Prohibition on Charges by Covered Entities.--A covered entity 
may not charge the Federal Government, as direct or indirect costs 
under a Federal contract, the costs of pay or benefits paid by the 
covered entity to a covered individual assigned to the Agency under the 
pilot program.
    (e) Annual Report.--Not later than the first October 31 after the 
first fiscal year in which the Director carries out the pilot program 
and each October 31 thereafter that immediately follows a fiscal year 
in which the Director carries out the pilot program, the Director shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
activities carried out under the pilot program during the most recently 
completed fiscal year.
    (f) Termination of Authority.--The authority provided in this 
section shall expire on September 30, 2025, except that any covered 
individual assigned to the Agency under the pilot program shall 
continue in such assignment until the terms of such assignment have 
been satisfied.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``covered individual'' means any individual who is 
    employed by a covered entity.
        (2) The term ``covered entity'' means any non-Federal, 
    nongovernmental entity that, as of the date on which a covered 
    individual employed by the entity is assigned to the Agency under 
    the pilot program, is a nontraditional defense contractor (as 
    defined in section 2302 of title 10, United States Code).
    SEC. 233. PILOT PROGRAM ON ENHANCEMENT OF PREPARATION OF DEPENDENTS 
      OF MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES FOR CAREERS IN SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, 
      ENGINEERING, AND MATHEMATICS.
    (a) Pilot Program.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a 
pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of--
        (1) enhancing the preparation of covered students for careers 
    in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics; and
        (2) providing assistance to teachers at covered schools to 
    enhance preparation described in paragraph (1).
    (b) Coordination.--In carrying out the pilot program, the Secretary 
shall coordinate with the following:
        (1) The Secretaries of the military departments.
        (2) The Secretary of Education.
        (3) The National Science Foundation.
        (4) The heads of such other Federal, State, and local 
    government and private sector organizations as the Secretary of 
    Defense considers appropriate.
    (c) Activities.--Activities under the pilot program may include the 
following:
        (1) Establishment of targeted internships and cooperative 
    research opportunities at defense laboratories and other technical 
    centers for covered students and teachers at covered schools.
        (2) Establishment of scholarships and fellowships for covered 
    students.
        (3) Efforts and activities that improve the quality of science, 
    technology, engineering, and mathematics educational and training 
    opportunities for covered students and teachers at covered schools, 
    including with respect to improving the development of curricula at 
    covered schools.
        (4) Development of travel opportunities, demonstrations, 
    mentoring programs, and informal science education for covered 
    students and teachers at covered schools.
    (d) Metrics.--The Secretary shall establish outcome-based metrics 
and internal and external assessments to evaluate the merits and 
benefits of activities conducted under the pilot program with respect 
to the needs of the Department of Defense.
    (e) Authorities.--In carrying out the pilot program, the Secretary 
shall, to the maximum extent practicable, make use of the authorities 
under chapter 111 and sections 2601, 2605, and 2374a of title 10, 
United States Code, section 219 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note), and such 
other authorities as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (f) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
on activities carried out under the pilot program.
    (g) Termination.--The pilot program shall terminate on September 
30, 2020.
    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``covered schools'' means elementary or secondary 
    schools at which the Secretary determines a significant number of 
    dependents of members of the Armed Forces are enrolled.
        (2) The term ``covered students'' means dependents of members 
    of the Armed Forces who are enrolled at a covered school.
    SEC. 234. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON HELICOPTER HEALTH AND USAGE 
      MONITORING SYSTEM OF THE ARMY.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) a health and usage monitoring system for current and future 
    helicopter platforms of the Army that provides early warning for 
    failing systems may reduce costly emergency maintenance, improve 
    maintenance schedules, and increase fleet readiness; and
        (2) the Secretary of the Army should--
            (A) consider establishing health and usage monitoring 
        requirements; and
            (B) after any decision to proceed with a program of record 
        for such system, use full and open competition in accordance 
        with the Federal Acquisition Regulation.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Elimination of fiscal year limitation on prohibition of 
          payment of fines and penalties from the Environmental 
          Restoration Account, Defense.
Sec. 312. Method of funding for cooperative agreements under the Sikes 
          Act.
Sec. 313. Report on prohibition of disposal of waste in open-air burn 
          pits.
Sec. 314. Business case analysis of any plan to design, refurbish, or 
          construct a biofuel refinery.
Sec. 315. Environmental restoration at former Naval Air Station 
          Chincoteague, Virginia.
Sec. 316. Limitation on availability of funds for procurement of drop-in 
          fuels.
Sec. 317. Decontamination of a portion of former bombardment area on 
          island of Culebra, Puerto Rico.
Sec. 318. Alternative fuel automobiles.

                  Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 321. Modification of quarterly readiness reporting requirement.
Sec. 322. Additional requirement for strategic policy on prepositioning 
          of materiel and equipment.
Sec. 323. Elimination of authority of Secretary of the Army to abolish 
          arsenals.
Sec. 324. Modification of annual reporting requirement related to 
          prepositioning of materiel and equipment.

                           Subtitle D--Reports

Sec. 331. Repeal of annual report on Department of Defense operation and 
          financial support for military museums.
Sec. 332. Army assessment of regionally aligned forces.

           Subtitle E--Limitations and Extensions of Authority

Sec. 341. Limitation on authority to enter into a contract for the 
          sustainment, maintenance, repair, or overhaul of the F117 
          engine.
Sec. 342. Limitation on establishment of regional Special Operations 
          Forces Coordination Centers.
Sec. 343. Limitation on transfer of MC-12 aircraft to United States 
          Special Operations Command.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 351. Clarification of authority relating to provision of 
          installation-support services through intergovernmental 
          support agreements.
Sec. 352. Management of conventional ammunition inventory.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4301.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

    SEC. 311. ELIMINATION OF FISCAL YEAR LIMITATION ON PROHIBITION OF 
      PAYMENT OF FINES AND PENALTIES FROM THE ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION 
      ACCOUNT, DEFENSE.
    Section 2703(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``for fiscal years 1995 through 2010,''; and
        (2) by striking ``for fiscal years 1997 through 2010''.
    SEC. 312. METHOD OF FUNDING FOR COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS UNDER THE 
      SIKES ACT.
    (a) Method of Payments Under Cooperative Agreements.--Subsection 
(b) of section 103A of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670c-1) is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``Funds''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
    ``(2) In the case of a cooperative agreement under subsection 
(a)(2), such funds--
        ``(A) may be paid in a lump sum and include an amount intended 
    to cover the future costs of the natural resource maintenance and 
    improvement activities provided for under the agreement; and
        ``(B) may be placed by the recipient in an interest-bearing or 
    other investment account, and any interest or income shall be 
    applied for the same purposes as the principal.
    ``(3) If any funds are placed by a recipient in an interest-bearing 
or other investment account under paragraph (2)(B), the Secretary of 
Defense shall report biennially to the congressional defense committees 
on the disposition of such funds.''.
    (b) Availability of Funds; Agreement Under Other Laws.--Subsection 
(c) of such section is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Availability of Funds; Agreement Under Other Laws.--(1) 
Cooperative agreements and interagency agreements entered into under 
this section shall be subject to the availability of funds.
    ``(2) Notwithstanding chapter 63 of title 31, United States Code, a 
cooperative agreement under this section may be used to acquire 
property or services for the direct benefit or use of the United States 
Government.''.
    SEC. 313. REPORT ON PROHIBITION OF DISPOSAL OF WASTE IN OPEN-AIR 
      BURN PITS.
    (a) Review and Report Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
conduct a review of the compliance of the military departments and 
combatant commands with Department of Defense Instruction 4715.19 and 
with section 317 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2249; 10 U.S.C. 2701 note) 
regarding the disposal of covered waste in burn pits. Not later than 
one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
containing the results of such review. Such report shall address each 
of the following:
        (1) The reporting of covered waste through environmental 
    surveys and assessments, including environmental condition reports, 
    of base camps supporting a contingency operation.
        (2) How covered waste and non-covered waste is defined and 
    identified in environmental surveys and assessments covered by 
    paragraph (1), in policies, instructions, and guidance issued by 
    the Department of Defense, the military departments, and the 
    combatant commands, and in the oversight of contracts for, and the 
    operation of, waste disposal facilities at base camps supporting 
    contingency operations.
        (3) Whether the two categories of waste are appropriately and 
    clearly distinguished in such surveys and assessments.
        (4) The current decision authority responsible for 
    determinations regarding whether a base camp supporting a 
    contingency operation is in compliance with the Department of 
    Defense Instruction and section 317 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
    Stat. 2249; 10 U.S.C. 2701 note) and the chain of command by which 
    such determinations are made and reported.
        (5) The process through which a waiver of the prohibition on 
    disposal of covered waste in a burn pit is requested and approved, 
    and the process by which Congress is notified of such waiver, 
    pursuant to the applicable provision of law, and how such processes 
    could be improved.
        (6) Updates to policies, guidelines, and instructions that have 
    been undertaken pursuant to the review to address gaps and 
    deficiencies regarding covered waste disposal to ensure compliance.
        (7) Other matters or recommendations the Secretary of Defense 
    determines are appropriate.
    (b) Comptroller General Review.--Not later than 120 days after the 
date on which the Secretary of Defense submits the report required 
under subsection (a), the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
containing the assessment of the Comptroller General of the methodology 
used by the Secretary of Defense in conducting the review under 
subsection (a), the adequacy of the report, compliance with Department 
of Defense Instruction and applicable law regarding the disposal of 
covered waste in burn pits by the military departments and combatant 
commands, and any additional findings or recommendations the 
Comptroller General determines are appropriate.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``covered waste'' has the meaning given that term 
    in section 317(d)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2249; 10 U.S.C. 2701 
    note).
        (2) The term ``base camp supporting a contingency operation'' 
    means any base, location, site, cooperative security location, 
    forward operating base, forward operating site, main operating 
    base, patrol base, or other location as determined by the Secretary 
    from which support is provided to a contingency operation that--
            (A) has at least 100 attached or assigned United States 
        personnel; and
            (B) is in place for a period of time of 90 days or longer.
        (3) The term ``burn pit'' means an area that--
            (A) does not contain a commercially manufactured 
        incinerator or other equipment specifically designed and 
        manufactured for burning of solid waste; and
            (B) is designated for the purpose of disposing of solid 
        waste by burning in the outdoor air;
            (C) is in a location where at least 100 United States 
        personnel are attached or assigned; and
            (D) is in place longer than 90 days.
        (4) The term ``contingency operation'' has the meaning given 
    such term in section 101(a)(13) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 314. BUSINESS CASE ANALYSIS OF ANY PLAN TO DESIGN, REFURBISH, 
      OR CONSTRUCT A BIOFUEL REFINERY.
    Not later than 30 days before entering into a contract for the 
planning, design, refurbishing, or construction of a biofuel refinery, 
or of any other facility or infrastructure used to refine biofuels, the 
Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of the military department 
concerned shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
business case analysis for such planning, design, refurbishing, or 
construction.
    SEC. 315. ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION AT FORMER NAVAL AIR STATION 
      CHINCOTEAGUE, VIRGINIA.
    (a) Environmental Restoration Project.--Notwithstanding the 
administrative jurisdiction of the Administrator of the National 
Aeronautics and Space Administration over the Wallops Flight Facility, 
Virginia, the Secretary of Defense may undertake an environmental 
restoration project in a manner consistent with chapter 160 of title 
10, United States Code, at the property constituting that facility in 
order to provide necessary response actions for contamination from a 
release of a hazardous substance or a pollutant or contaminant that is 
attributable to the activities of the Department of Defense at the time 
the property was under the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary 
of the Navy or used by the Navy pursuant to a permit or license issued 
by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in the area 
formerly known as the Naval Air Station, Chincoteague, Virginia. Any 
such project may be undertaken jointly or in conjunction with an 
environmental restoration project of the Administrator.
    (b) Interagency Agreement.--The Secretary and the Administrator may 
enter into an agreement or agreements to provide for the effective and 
efficient performance of environmental restoration projects for 
purposes of subsection (a). Notwithstanding section 2215 of title 10, 
United States Code, any such agreement may provide for environmental 
restoration projects conducted jointly or by one agency on behalf of 
the other or both agencies and for reimbursement of the agency 
conducting the project by the other agency for that portion of the 
project for which the reimbursing agency has authority to respond.
    (c) Source of Department of Defense Funds.--Pursuant to section 
2703(c) of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary may use funds 
available in the Environmental Restoration, Formerly Used Defense 
Sites, account of the Department of Defense for environmental 
restoration projects conducted for or by the Secretary under subsection 
(a) and for reimbursable agreements entered into under subsection (b).
    (d) No Effect on Compliance With Environmental Laws.--Nothing in 
this section affects or limits the application of or obligation to 
comply with any environmental law, including the Comprehensive 
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 
U.S.C. 9601 et seq.) and the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 
et seq.).
    SEC. 316. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR PROCUREMENT OF 
      DROP-IN FUELS.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for the 
Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to make a bulk 
purchase of a drop-in fuel for operational purposes unless the fully 
burdened cost of that drop-in fuel is cost-competitive with the fully 
burdened cost of a traditional fuel available for the same purpose.
    (b) Waiver.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to the requirements of paragraph (2), 
    the Secretary of Defense may waive the limitation under subsection 
    (a) with respect to a purchase.
        (2) Notice required.--Not later than 30 days after issuing a 
    waiver under this subsection, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees notice of the waiver. Any such 
    notice shall include each of the following:
            (A) The rationale of the Secretary for issuing the waiver.
            (B) A certification that the waiver is in the national 
        security interest of the United States.
            (C) The expected fully burdened cost of the purchase for 
        which the waiver is issued.
    (c) Notice of Purchase Required.--If the Secretary of Defense 
intends to purchase a drop-in fuel intended for operational use with a 
fully burdened cost in excess of 10 percent more than the fully 
burdened cost of a traditional fuel available for the same purpose, the 
Secretary shall provide notice of such intended purchase to the 
congressional defense committees by not later than 30 days before the 
date on which such purchase is intended to be made.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``drop-in fuel'' means a neat or blended liquid 
    hydrocarbon fuel designed as a direct replacement for a traditional 
    fuel with comparable performance characteristics and compatible 
    with existing infrastructure and equipment.
        (2) The term ``traditional fuel'' means a liquid hydrocarbon 
    fuel derived or refined from petroleum.
        (3) The term ``operational purposes'' means for the purposes of 
    conducting military operations, including training, exercises, 
    large scale demonstrations, and moving and sustaining military 
    forces and military platforms. The term does not include research, 
    development, testing, evaluation, fuel certification, or other 
    demonstrations.
        (4) The term ``fully burdened cost'' means the commodity price 
    of the fuel plus the total cost of all personnel and assets 
    required to move and, when necessary, protect the fuel from the 
    point at which the fuel is received from the commercial supplier to 
    the point of use.
    SEC. 317. DECONTAMINATION OF A PORTION OF FORMER BOMBARDMENT AREA 
      ON ISLAND OF CULEBRA, PUERTO RICO.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that certain 
limited portions of the former bombardment area on the Island of 
Culebra should be available for safe public recreational use while the 
remainder of the area is most advantageously reserved as habitat for 
endangered and threatened species.
    (b) Modification of Restriction on Decontamination Limitation.--The 
first sentence of section 204(c) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act, 1974 (Public Law 93-166; 87 Stat. 668) shall not 
apply to the beaches, the campgrounds, and the Carlos Rosario Trail.
    (c) Modification of Deed Restrictions.--Notwithstanding paragraph 9 
of the quitclaim deed, the Secretary of the Army may expend funds 
available in the Environmental Restoration Account, Formerly Used 
Defense Sites, established pursuant to section 2703(a)(5) of title 10, 
United States Code, to decontaminate the beaches, the campgrounds, and 
the Carlos Rosario Trail of unexploded ordnance.
    (d) Precise Boundaries.--The Secretary of the Army shall determine 
the exact boundaries of the beaches, the campgrounds, and the Carlos 
Rosario Trail for purposes of this section.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``beaches'' means the portions of Carlos Rosario 
    Beach, Flamenco Beach, and Tamarindo Beach identified in green in 
    Figure 4 as Beach and located inside of the former bombardment 
    area.
        (2) The term ``campgrounds'' means the areas identified in blue 
    in Figure 4 as Campgrounds in the former bombardment area.
        (3) The term ``Carlos Rosario Trail'' means the trail 
    identified in yellow in Figure 4 as the Carlos Rosario Trail and 
    traversing the southern portion of the former bombardment area from 
    the campground to the Carlos Rosario Beach.
        (4) The term ``Figure 4'' means Figure 4, located on page 8 of 
    the study.
        (5) The term ``former bombardment area'' means that area on the 
    Island of Culebra, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, consisting of 
    approximately 408 acres, conveyed to the Commonwealth by the 
    quitclaim deed, and subject to the first sentence of section 204(c) 
    of the Military Construction Authorization Act, 1974 (Public Law 
    93-166; 87 Stat. 668).
        (6) The term ``quitclaim deed'' means the quitclaim deed from 
    the United States of America to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico 
    conveying the former bombardment area, signed by the Governor of 
    Puerto Rico on December 20, 1982.
        (7) The term ``study'' means the ``Study Relating to the 
    Presence of Unexploded Ordnance in a Portion of the Former Naval 
    Bombardment Area of Culebra Island, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico'', 
    dated April 20, 2012, prepared by the United States Army for the 
    Department of Defense pursuant to section 2815 of the Ike Skelton 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 
    111-383; 124 Stat. 4464).
        (8) The term ``unexploded ordnance'' has the meaning given the 
    term in section 101(e)(5) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 318. ALTERNATIVE FUEL AUTOMOBILES.
    (a) Maximum Fuel Economy Increase for Alternative Fuel 
Automobiles.--Section 32906(a) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``(except an electric automobile)'' and inserting 
``(except an electric automobile or, beginning with model year 2016, an 
alternative fueled automobile that uses a fuel described in 
subparagraph (E) of section 32901(a)(1))''.
    (b) Minimum Driving Ranges for Dual Fueled Passenger Automobiles.--
Section 32901(c)(2) of title 49, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``, except that beginning 
    with model year 2016, alternative fueled automobiles that use a 
    fuel described in subparagraph (E) of subsection (a)(1) shall have 
    a minimum driving range of 150 miles'' after ``at least 200 
    miles''; and
        (2) in subparagraph (C), by adding at the end the following: 
    ``Beginning with model year 2016, if the Secretary prescribes a 
    minimum driving range of 150 miles for alternative fueled 
    automobiles that use a fuel described in subparagraph (E) of 
    subsection (a)(1), subparagraph (A) shall not apply to dual fueled 
    automobiles (except electric automobiles).''.
    (c) Electric Dual Fueled Automobiles.--Section 32905 of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) 
    and (g), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
    ``(e) Electric Dual Fueled Automobiles.--
        ``(1) In general.--At the request of the manufacturer, the 
    Administrator may measure the fuel economy for any model of dual 
    fueled automobile manufactured after model year 2015 that is 
    capable of operating on electricity in addition to gasoline or 
    diesel fuel, obtains its electricity from a source external to the 
    vehicle, and meets the minimum driving range requirements 
    established by the Secretary for dual fueled electric automobiles, 
    by dividing 1.0 by the sum of--
            ``(A) the percentage utilization of the model on gasoline 
        or diesel fuel, as determined by a formula based on the model's 
        alternative fuel range, divided by the fuel economy measured 
        under section 32904(c); and
            ``(B) the percentage utilization of the model on 
        electricity, as determined by a formula based on the model's 
        alternative fuel range, divided by the fuel economy measured 
        under section 32904(a)(2).
        ``(2) Alternative calculation.--If the manufacturer does not 
    request that the Administrator calculate the manufacturing 
    incentive for its electric dual fueled automobiles in accordance 
    with paragraph (1), the Administrator shall calculate such 
    incentive for such automobiles manufactured by such manufacturer 
    after model year 2015 in accordance with subsection (b).''.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--Section 32906(b) of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``section 32905(e)'' and inserting 
``section 32905(f)''.

                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

    SEC. 321. MODIFICATION OF QUARTERLY READINESS REPORTING 
      REQUIREMENT.
    Section 482 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by inserting ``the'' before ``military readiness'';
            (B) by inserting ``of the active and reserve components'' 
        after ``military readiness''; and
            (C) by striking ``subsections (b), (d), (f), (g), (h), (i), 
        (j), and (k)'' and all that follows through the period at the 
        end and inserting ``subsections (b), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), 
        and (i).'';
        (2) by striking subsections (d), (e), (f), and (k);
        (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection (d):
    ``(d) Prepositioned Stocks.--Each report shall also include a 
military department-level or agency-level assessment of the readiness 
of prepositioned stocks, including--
        ``(1) an assessment of the fill and materiel readiness of 
    stocks by geographic location;
        ``(2) an overall assessment by military department or Defense 
    Agency of the ability of the respective stocks to meet operation 
    and contingency plans; and
        ``(3) a mitigation plan for any shortfalls or gaps identified 
    under paragraph (1) or (2) and a timeline associated with 
    corrective action.'';
        (4) by redesignating subsections (g), (h), (i), (j), and (l) as 
    subsections (e), (f), (g), (h), and (j) respectively;
        (5) in subsection (e)(1), as redesignated by paragraph (4), by 
    striking ``National Response Plan'' and inserting ``National 
    Response Framework'';
        (6) in subsection (f), as so redesignated, by adding at the end 
    the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) The assessment included in the report under paragraph (1) by 
the Commander of the United States Strategic Command shall include a 
separate assessment prepared by the Commander of United States Cyber 
Command relating to the readiness of United States Cyber Command and 
the readiness of the cyber force of each of the military 
departments.'';
        (7) in subsection (h), as so redesignated--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``and Related'' 
        after ``Support'';
            (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``combat support 
        agencies'' and inserting ``combat support and related 
        agencies''; and
            (C) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by striking ``combat support agency'' and inserting 
        ``combat support and related agencies''; and
        (8) by inserting after subsection (h) the following new 
    subsection (i):
    ``(i) Major Exercise Assessments.--(1) Each report under this 
section shall also include information on each major exercise conducted 
by a geographic or functional combatant command or military department, 
including--
        ``(A) a list of exercises by name for the period covered by the 
    report;
        ``(B) the cost and location of each such exercise; and
        ``(C) a list of participants by country or military department.
    ``(2) In this subsection, the term `major exercise' means a named 
major training event, an integrated or joint exercise, or a unilateral 
major exercise.''.
    SEC. 322. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENT FOR STRATEGIC POLICY ON 
      PREPOSITIONING OF MATERIEL AND EQUIPMENT.
    Section 2229(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``support for crisis response elements,'' after ``service 
requirements,''.
    SEC. 323. ELIMINATION OF AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF THE ARMY TO 
      ABOLISH ARSENALS.
    (a) In General.--Section 4532 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``(a) The Secretary'' and 
    inserting ``The Secretary'';
        (2) by striking subsection (b); and
        (3) in the section heading, by striking ``; abolition of''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 433 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 4532 and inserting the following new item:

``4532. Factories and arsenals: manufacture at.''.
    SEC. 324. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORTING REQUIREMENT RELATED TO 
      PREPOSITIONING OF MATERIEL AND EQUIPMENT.
    Section 321(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 732; 10 U.S.C. 2229 note) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``Not later than'' and inserting the following:
        ``(1) Initial report.--Not later than'';
        (2) by striking ``, and annually thereafter''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) Progress reports.--Not later than one year after 
    submitting the report required under paragraph (1), and annually 
    thereafter for two years, the Comptroller General shall submit to 
    the congressional defense committees a report assessing the 
    progress of the Department of Defense in implementing its strategic 
    policy and plan for its prepositioned stocks and including any 
    additional information related to the Department's management of 
    its prepositioned stocks that the Comptroller General determines 
    appropriate.''.

                          Subtitle D--Reports

    SEC. 331. REPEAL OF ANNUAL REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
      OPERATION AND FINANCIAL SUPPORT FOR MILITARY MUSEUMS.
    (a) In General.--Section 489 of title 10, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 23 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 489.
    SEC. 332. ARMY ASSESSMENT OF REGIONALLY ALIGNED FORCES.
    At the same time as the President transmits to Congress the budget 
for fiscal year 2016 under section 1105 of title 31, United States 
Code, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees an assessment of how the Army has--
        (1) captured and incorporated lessons learned through the 
    initial employment of the regionally aligned forces;
        (2) identified, where appropriate, institutionalized and 
    improved region-specific initial, sustaining, and predeployment 
    training;
        (3) improved the coordination of activities among special 
    operations forces, Army regionally aligned forces, Department of 
    State country teams, contractors of the Department of State and the 
    Department of Defense, the geographic combatant commands, the Joint 
    Staff, and international partners;
        (4) identified and evaluated the various Department of Defense 
    appropriations accounts at the subactivity group, project, program, 
    and activity level and other sources of Federal resources used to 
    fund activities of regionally aligned forces, including the amount 
    of funds obligated or expended from each such account;
        (5) identified and assessed the effects associated with 
    activities of regionally aligned forces conducted to meet 
    Department of Defense and geographic combatant command security 
    cooperation requirements;
        (6) identified and assessed the effect on the core mission 
    readiness of regionally aligned forces while supporting geographic 
    combatant commander requirements through regionally aligned force 
    activities, and, in the case of any such effect that is assessed as 
    degrading the core mission readiness of such forces, identified 
    plans to mitigate such degradation;
        (7) identified and assessed opportunities, costs, benefits, and 
    risks associated with the potential expansion of the regionally 
    aligned forces model; and
        (8) identified and assessed opportunities, costs, benefits, and 
    risks associated with retaining or ensuring the availability of 
    regional expertise within forces as aligned to a specific region.

          Subtitle E--Limitations and Extensions of Authority

    SEC. 341. LIMITATION ON AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO A CONTRACT FOR THE 
      SUSTAINMENT, MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, OR OVERHAUL OF THE F117 ENGINE.
    The Secretary of the Air Force may not enter into a contract for 
the sustainment, maintenance, repair, or overhaul of the F117 engine 
until the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
Logistics certifies to the congressional defense committees that the 
Secretary of the Air Force has obtained sufficient data to determine 
that the Secretary of the Air Force is paying a fair and reasonable 
price for F117 sustainment, maintenance, repair, or overhaul as 
compared to the PW2000 commercial-derivative engine sustainment price 
for sustainment, maintenance, repair, or overhaul in the private 
sector. The Secretary may waive the limitation in the preceding 
sentence to enter into a contract if the Secretary determines that such 
a waiver is in the interest of national security.
    SEC. 342. LIMITATION ON ESTABLISHMENT OF REGIONAL SPECIAL 
      OPERATIONS FORCES COORDINATION CENTERS.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for the Department of 
Defense may be obligated or expended to establish Regional Special 
Operations Forces Coordination Centers.
    SEC. 343. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF MC-12 AIRCRAFT TO UNITED STATES 
      SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND.
    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided under subsection (c), none of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2015 for the Department of Defense for 
operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, may be obligated or expended 
for the transfer of MC-12 aircraft from the Air Force to the United 
States Special Operations Command before the date that is 60 days after 
the date of the delivery of the report required under subsection (b).
    (b) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2015, the Assistant 
    Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity 
    Conflict, in coordination with the Commander of the United States 
    Special Operations Command, shall submit to the congressional 
    defense committees a report containing an analysis and 
    justification for the transfer of MC-12 aircraft from the Air Force 
    to the United States Special Operations Command.
        (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include--
            (A) a description of the current platform requirements for 
        manned intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft 
        to support United States Special Operations Forces;
            (B) an analysis of alternatives comparing various manned 
        intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance aircraft, 
        including U-28 aircraft, in meeting the platform requirements 
        for manned intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
        aircraft to support United States Special Operations Forces;
            (C) an analysis of the remaining service life of the U-28 
        aircraft to be divested by the United States Special Operations 
        Command and the MC-12 aircraft to be transferred from the Air 
        Force;
            (D) a description of the future manned intelligence, 
        surveillance, and reconnaissance platform requirements of the 
        United States Special Operations Command for areas outside of 
        Afghanistan, including range, payload, endurance, and other 
        requirements, as defined by the Command's ``Intelligence, 
        Surveillance, and Reconnaissance Road Map'';
            (E) an analysis of the cost to convert MC-12 aircraft to 
        provide intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
        capabilities equal to or better than those provided by the U-28 
        aircraft;
            (F) a description of the engineering and integration needed 
        to convert MC-12 aircraft to provide intelligence, 
        surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities equal to or 
        better than those provided by the U-28 aircraft; and
            (G) the expected annual cost to operate 16 U-28 aircraft as 
        a Government-owned, contractor operated program.
    (c) Exception.--Subsection (a) does not apply to up to 13 aircraft 
designated by the Secretary of the Air Force to be transferred from the 
Air Force to the United States Special Operations Command and flown by 
the Air National Guard in support of special operations aviation 
foreign internal defense and intelligence, surveillance, and 
reconnaissance requirements.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

    SEC. 351. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORITY RELATING TO PROVISION OF 
      INSTALLATION-SUPPORT SERVICES THROUGH INTERGOVERNMENTAL SUPPORT 
      AGREEMENTS.
    (a) Transfer of Section 2336 to Chapter 159.--
        (1) Transfer and redesignation.--Section 2336 of title 10, 
    United States Code, is transferred to chapter 159 of such title, 
    inserted after section 2678, and redesignated as section 2679.
        (2) Revised section heading.--The heading of such section, as 
    so transferred and redesignated, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2679. Installation-support services: intergovernmental support 
    agreements''.
    (b) Clarifying Amendments.--Such section, as so transferred and 
redesignated, is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) by striking ``The Secretary concerned'' and 
            inserting ``Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
            governing the award of Federal government contracts for 
            goods and services, the Secretary concerned''; and
                (ii) by striking ``a State or local'' and inserting ``, 
            on a sole source basis, with a State or local'';
            (B) in paragraph (2)--
                (i) by striking ``Notwithstanding any other provision 
            of law, an'' and inserting ``An'';
                (ii) by striking subparagraph (A); and
                (iii) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as 
            subparagraphs (A) and (B) respectively; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) Any contract for the provision of installation-support 
services awarded by the Federal Government or a State or local 
government pursuant to an intergovernmental support agreement provided 
in subsection (a) shall be awarded on a competitive basis.''.
        (2) by adding at the end of subsection (e) the following new 
    paragraph:
        ``(4) The term `intergovernmental support agreement' means a 
    legal instrument reflecting a relationship between the Secretary 
    concerned and a State or local government that contains such terms 
    and conditions as the Secretary concerned considers appropriate for 
    the purposes of this section and necessary to protect the interests 
    of the United States.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 137 of 
    such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 
    2336.
        (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 159 of 
    such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
    section 2678 the following new item:

``2679. Installation-support services: intergovernmental support 
          agreements.''.
    SEC. 352. MANAGEMENT OF CONVENTIONAL AMMUNITION INVENTORY.
    (a) Consolidation of Data.--Not later than 240 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall issue Department-wide 
guidance designating an authoritative source of data for conventional 
ammunition. Not later than 10 days after issuing the guidance required 
by this subsection, the Under Secretary shall notify the congressional 
defense committees on what source of data has been designated under 
this subsection.
    (b) Annual Report.--The Secretary of the Army shall include in the 
appropriate annual ammunition inventory reports, as determined by the 
Secretary, information on all available ammunition for use during the 
redistribution process, including any ammunition that was unclaimed and 
categorized for disposal by another military service during a year 
before the year during which the report is submitted.
    (c) Briefing and Report.--
        (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
    shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing 
    and a report on the management of the conventional ammunition 
    demilitarization stockpile of the Department of Defense.
        (2) Elements.--The briefing and report required by paragraph 
    (1) shall include each of the following:
            (A) An assessment of the adequacy of Department of Defense 
        policies and procedures governing the demilitarization of 
        excess, obsolete, and unserviceable conventional ammunition.
            (B) An assessment of the adequacy of the maintenance by the 
        Department of information on the quantity, value, condition, 
        and location of excess, obsolete, and unserviceable 
        conventional ammunition for each of the Armed Forces.
            (C) An assessment of whether the Department has conducted 
        an analysis comparing the costs of storing and maintaining 
        items in the conventional ammunition demilitarization stockpile 
        with the costs of the disposal of items in the stockpile.
            (D) An assessment of whether the Department has--
                (i) identified challenges in managing the current and 
            anticipated conventional ammunition demilitarization 
            stockpile; and
                (ii) if so, developed mitigation plans to address such 
            challenges.
            (E) Such other matters relating to the management of the 
        conventional ammunition demilitarization stockpile as the 
        Comptroller General considers appropriate.
        (3) Deadlines.--The briefing required by paragraph (1) shall be 
    provided by not later than April 30, 2015. The report required by 
    that paragraph shall be submitted not later than June 1, 2015.

              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                        Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. Revisions in permanent active duty end strength minimum 
          levels.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for reserves on active duty in support of the 
          reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Fiscal year 2015 limitation on number of non-dual status 
          technicians.
Sec. 415. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on active 
          duty for operational support.

               Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

    SEC. 401. END STRENGTHS FOR ACTIVE FORCES.
    The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty personnel 
as of September 30, 2015, as follows:
        (1) The Army, 490,000.
        (2) The Navy, 323,600.
        (3) The Marine Corps, 184,100.
        (4) The Air Force, 312,980.
    SEC. 402. REVISIONS IN PERMANENT ACTIVE DUTY END STRENGTH MINIMUM 
      LEVELS.
    Section 691(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking paragraphs (1) through (4) and inserting the following new 
paragraphs:
        ``(1) For the Army, 490,000.
        ``(2) For the Navy, 323,600.
        ``(3) For the Marine Corps, 184,100.
        ``(4) For the Air Force, 310,900.''.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

    SEC. 411. END STRENGTHS FOR SELECTED RESERVE.
    (a) In General.--The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for 
Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as of September 
30, 2015, as follows:
        (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 350,200.
        (2) The Army Reserve, 202,000.
        (3) The Navy Reserve, 57,300.
        (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 39,200.
        (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 105,000.
        (6) The Air Force Reserve, 67,100.
        (7) The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
    (b) End Strength Reductions.--The end strengths prescribed by 
subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve component shall 
be proportionately reduced by--
        (1) the total authorized strength of units organized to serve 
    as units of the Selected Reserve of such component which are on 
    active duty (other than for training) at the end of the fiscal 
    year; and
        (2) the total number of individual members not in units 
    organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such 
    component who are on active duty (other than for training or for 
    unsatisfactory participation in training) without their consent at 
    the end of the fiscal year.
    (c) End Strength Increases.--Whenever units or individual members 
of the Selected Reserve of any reserve component are released from 
active duty during any fiscal year, the end strength prescribed for 
such fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of such reserve component 
shall be increased proportionately by the total authorized strengths of 
such units and by the total number of such individual members.
    SEC. 412. END STRENGTHS FOR RESERVES ON ACTIVE DUTY IN SUPPORT OF 
      THE RESERVES.
    Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of September 30, 
2015, the following number of Reserves to be serving on full-time 
active duty or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National 
Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, 
instructing, or training the reserve components:
        (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 31,385.
        (2) The Army Reserve, 16,261.
        (3) The Navy Reserve, 9,973.
        (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,261.
        (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 14,704.
        (6) The Air Force Reserve, 2,830.
    SEC. 413. END STRENGTHS FOR MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS).
    The minimum number of military technicians (dual status) as of the 
last day of fiscal year 2015 for the reserve components of the Army and 
the Air Force (notwithstanding section 129 of title 10, United States 
Code) shall be the following:
        (1) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 27,210.
        (2) For the Army Reserve, 7,895.
        (3) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 21,792.
        (4) For the Air Force Reserve, 9,789.
    SEC. 414. FISCAL YEAR 2015 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF NON-DUAL STATUS 
      TECHNICIANS.
    (a) Limitations.--
        (1) National guard.--Within the limitation provided in section 
    10217(c)(2) of title 10, United States Code, the number of non-dual 
    status technicians employed by the National Guard as of September 
    30, 2015, may not exceed the following:
            (A) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 
        1,600.
            (B) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 350.
        (2) Army reserve.--The number of non-dual status technicians 
    employed by the Army Reserve as of September 30, 2015, may not 
    exceed 595.
        (3) Air force reserve.--The number of non-dual status 
    technicians employed by the Air Force Reserve as of September 30, 
    2015, may not exceed 90.
    (b) Non-Dual Status Technicians Defined.--In this section, the term 
``non-dual status technician'' has the meaning given that term in 
section 10217(a) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 415. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RESERVE PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO BE ON 
      ACTIVE DUTY FOR OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.
    During fiscal year 2015, the maximum number of members of the 
reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving at any time 
on full-time operational support duty under section 115(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is the following:
        (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
        (2) The Army Reserve, 13,000.
        (3) The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
        (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
        (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
        (6) The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 421. MILITARY PERSONNEL.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 for the use of the Armed Forces 
and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, as 
specified in the funding table in section 4401.
    (b) Construction of Authorization.--The authorization of 
appropriations in subsection (a) supersedes any other authorization of 
appropriations (definite or indefinite) for such purpose for fiscal 
year 2015.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Authority to limit consideration for early retirement by 
          selective retirement boards to particular warrant officer year 
          groups and specialties.
Sec. 502. Authority for three-month deferral of retirement for officers 
          selected for selective early retirement.
Sec. 503. Repeal of limits on percentage of officers who may be 
          recommended for discharge during a fiscal year under enhanced 
          selective discharge authority.
Sec. 504. Reports on number and assignment of enlisted aides for 
          officers of the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps.
Sec. 505. Repeal of requirement for submission to Congress of annual 
          reports on joint officer management and promotion policy 
          objectives for joint officers.
Sec. 506. Options for Phase II of joint professional military education.
Sec. 507. Elimination of requirement that a qualified aviator or naval 
          flight officer be in command of an inactivated nuclear-powered 
          aircraft carrier before decommissioning.
Sec. 508. Required consideration of certain elements of command climate 
          in performance appraisals of commanding officers.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 511. Retention on the reserve active-status list following 
          nonselection for promotion of certain health professions 
          officers and first lieutenants and lieutenants (junior grade) 
          pursuing baccalaureate degrees.
Sec. 512. Consultation with Chief of the National Guard Bureau in 
          selection of Directors and Deputy Directors, Army National 
          Guard and Air National Guard.
Sec. 513. Centralized database of information on military technician 
          positions.
Sec. 514. Report on management of personnel records of members of the 
          National Guard.

                 Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

Sec. 521. Enhancement of participation of mental health professionals in 
          boards for correction of military records and boards for 
          review of discharge or dismissal of members of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 522. Extension of authority to conduct programs on career 
          flexibility to enhance retention of members of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 523. Provision of information to members of the Armed Forces on 
          privacy rights relating to receipt of mental health services.
Sec. 524. Removal of artificial barriers to the service of women in the 
          Armed Forces.

  Subtitle D--Military Justice, Including Sexual Assault and Domestic 
                    Violence Prevention and Response

Sec. 531. Technical revisions and clarifications of certain provisions 
          in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
          relating to the military justice system.
Sec. 532. Ordering of depositions under the Uniform Code of Military 
          Justice.
Sec. 533. Access to Special Victims' Counsel.
Sec. 534. Enhancement of victims' rights in connection with prosecution 
          of certain sex-related offenses.
Sec. 535. Enforcement of crime victims' rights related to protections 
          afforded by certain Military Rules of Evidence.
Sec. 536. Modification of Military Rules of Evidence relating to 
          admissibility of general military character toward probability 
          of innocence.
Sec. 537. Modification of Rule 513 of the Military Rules of Evidence, 
          relating to the privilege against disclosure of communications 
          between psychotherapists and patients.
Sec. 538. Modification of Department of Defense policy on retention of 
          evidence in a sexual assault case to permit return of personal 
          property upon completion of related proceedings.
Sec. 539. Requirements relating to Sexual Assault Forensic Examiners for 
          the Armed Forces.
Sec. 540. Modification of term of judges of the United States Court of 
          Appeals for the Armed Forces.
Sec. 541. Review of decisions not to refer charges of certain sex-
          related offenses for trial by court-martial if requested by 
          chief prosecutor.
Sec. 542. Analysis and assessment of disposition of most serious 
          offenses identified in unrestricted reports on sexual assaults 
          in annual reports on sexual assaults in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 543. Plan for limited use of certain information on sexual assaults 
          in restricted reports by military criminal investigative 
          organizations.
Sec. 544. Improved Department of Defense information reporting and 
          collection of domestic violence incidents involving members of 
          the Armed Forces.
Sec. 545. Additional duties for judicial proceedings panel.
Sec. 546. Defense Advisory Committee on Investigation, Prosecution, and 
          Defense of Sexual Assault in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 547. Confidential review of characterization of terms of discharge 
          of members of the Armed Forces who are victims of sexual 
          offenses.

         Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, and Transition

Sec. 551. Enhancement of authority to assist members of the Armed Forces 
          to obtain professional credentials.
Sec. 552. Applicability of sexual assault prevention and response and 
          related military justice enhancements to military service 
          academies.
Sec. 553. Authorized duration of foreign and cultural exchange 
          activities at military service academies.
Sec. 554. Enhancement of authority to accept support for Air Force 
          Academy athletic programs.
Sec. 555. Pilot program to assist members of the Armed Forces in 
          obtaining post-service employment.
Sec. 556. Plan for education of members of Armed Forces on cyber 
          matters.
Sec. 557. Enhancement of information provided to members of the Armed 
          Forces and veterans regarding use of Post-9/11 Educational 
          Assistance and Federal financial aid through Transition 
          Assistance Program.
Sec. 558. Procedures for provision of certain information to State 
          veterans agencies to facilitate the transition of members of 
          the Armed Forces from military service to civilian life.

Subtitle F--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                 Matters

Sec. 561. Continuation of authority to assist local educational agencies 
          that benefit dependents of members of the Armed Forces and 
          Department of Defense civilian employees.
Sec. 562. Impact aid for children with severe disabilities.
Sec. 563. Amendments to the Impact Aid Improvement Act of 2012.
Sec. 564. Authority to employ non-United States citizens as teachers in 
          Department of Defense overseas dependents' school system.
Sec. 565. Inclusion of domestic dependent elementary and secondary 
          schools among functions of Advisory Council on Dependents' 
          Education.
Sec. 566. Protection of child custody arrangements for parents who are 
          members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 567. Improved consistency in data collection and reporting in Armed 
          Forces suicide prevention efforts.
Sec. 568. Improved data collection related to efforts to reduce 
          underemployment of spouses of members of the Armed Forces and 
          close the wage gap between military spouses and their civilian 
          counterparts.

                   Subtitle G--Decorations and Awards

Sec. 571. Medals for members of the Armed Forces and civilian employees 
          of the Department of Defense who were killed or wounded in an 
          attack by a foreign terrorist organization.
Sec. 572. Authorization for award of the Medal of Honor to members of 
          the Armed Forces for acts of valor during World War I.

            Subtitle H--Miscellaneous Reporting Requirements

Sec. 581. Review and report on military programs and controls regarding 
          professionalism.
Sec. 582. Review and report on prevention of suicide among members of 
          United States Special Operations Forces.
Sec. 583. Review and report on provision of job placement assistance and 
          related employment services directly to members of the reserve 
          components.
Sec. 584. Report on foreign language, regional expertise, and culture 
          considerations in overseas military operations.
Sec. 585. Deadline for submission of report containing results of review 
          of Office of Diversity Management and Equal Opportunity role 
          in sexual harassment cases.
Sec. 586. Independent assessment of risk and resiliency of United States 
          Special Operations Forces and effectiveness of the 
          Preservation of the Force and Families and Human Performance 
          Programs.
Sec. 587. Comptroller General report on hazing in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 588. Comptroller General report on impact of certain mental and 
          physical trauma on discharges from military service for 
          misconduct.

                        Subtitle I--Other Matters

Sec. 591. Inspection of outpatient residential facilities occupied by 
          recovering service members.
Sec. 592. Designation of voter assistance offices.
Sec. 593. Repeal of electronic voting demonstration project.
Sec. 594. Authority for removal from national cemeteries of remains of 
          certain deceased members of the Armed Forces who have no known 
          next of kin.
Sec. 595. Sense of Congress regarding leaving no member of the Armed 
          Forces unaccounted for during the drawdown of United States 
          forces in Afghanistan.

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

    SEC. 501. AUTHORITY TO LIMIT CONSIDERATION FOR EARLY RETIREMENT BY 
      SELECTIVE RETIREMENT BOARDS TO PARTICULAR WARRANT OFFICER YEAR 
      GROUPS AND SPECIALTIES.
    Section 581(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
        (2) by designating the second sentence of paragraph (1) as 
    paragraph (2); and
        (3) in paragraph (2), as so designated--
            (A) by striking ``the list shall include each'' and 
        inserting ``the list shall include--
        ``(A) the name of each'';
            (B) by striking the period at the end and inserting ``; 
        or''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(B) with respect to a group of warrant officers designated 
    under subparagraph (A) who are in a particular grade and 
    competitive category, only those warrant officers in that grade and 
    competitive category who are also in a particular year group or 
    specialty, or any combination thereof determined by the Secretary 
    concerned.''.
    SEC. 502. AUTHORITY FOR THREE-MONTH DEFERRAL OF RETIREMENT FOR 
      OFFICERS SELECTED FOR SELECTIVE EARLY RETIREMENT.
    (a) Warrant Officers.--Section 581(e) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The Secretary concerned'';
        (2) by striking ``90 days'' and inserting ``three months''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) An officer recommended for early retirement under this 
section, if approved for deferral under paragraph (1), shall be retired 
on the date requested by the officer, and approved by the Secretary 
concerned, which date shall be not later than the first day of the 
tenth calendar month beginning after the month in which the Secretary 
concerned approves the report of the board which recommended the 
officer for early retirement.''.
    (b) Officers on the Active-duty List.--Section 638(b) of such title 
is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following new 
    paragraph:
    ``(1)(A) An officer in a grade below brigadier general or rear 
admiral (lower half) who is recommended for early retirement under this 
section or section 638a of this title and whose early retirement is 
approved by the Secretary concerned shall be retired, under any 
provision of law under which he is eligible to retire, on the date 
requested by him and approved by the Secretary concerned, which date 
shall be not later than the first day of the seventh calendar month 
beginning after the month in which the Secretary concerned approves the 
report of the board which recommended the officer for early retirement.
    ``(B) If an officer described in subparagraph (A) is not eligible 
for retirement under any provision of law, the officer shall be 
retained on active duty until the officer is qualified for retirement 
under section 3911, 6323, or 8911 of this title, and then be retired 
under that section, unless the officer is sooner retired or discharged 
under some other provision of law, with such retirement under that 
section occurring not later than the later of the following:
        ``(i) The first day of the month beginning after the month in 
    which the officer becomes qualified for retirement under that 
    section.
        ``(ii) The first day of the seventh calendar month beginning 
    after the month in which the Secretary concerned approves the 
    report of the board which recommended the officer for early 
    retirement.''; and
        (2) in paragraph (3)--
            (A) by inserting ``(A)'' before ``The Secretary 
        concerned'';
            (B) by striking ``90 days'' and inserting ``three months''; 
        and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
    ``(B) An officer recommended for early retirement under paragraph 
(1)(A) or section 638a of this title, if approved for deferral under 
subparagraph (A), shall be retired on the date requested by the 
officer, and approved by the Secretary concerned, which date shall be 
not later than the first day of the tenth calendar month beginning 
after the month in which the Secretary concerned approves the report of 
the board which recommended the officer for early retirement.
    ``(C) The Secretary concerned may defer the retirement of an 
officer otherwise approved for early retirement under paragraph (1)(B), 
but in no case later than the first day of the tenth calendar month 
beginning after the month in which the Secretary concerned approves the 
report of the board which recommended the officer for early retirement.
    ``(D) An officer recommended for early retirement under paragraph 
(2), if approved for deferral under subparagraph (A), shall be retired 
on the date requested by the officer, and approved by the Secretary 
concerned, which date shall be not later than the first day of the 
thirteenth calendar month beginning after the month in which the 
Secretary concerned approves the report of the board which recommended 
the officer for early retirement.''.
    SEC. 503. REPEAL OF LIMITS ON PERCENTAGE OF OFFICERS WHO MAY BE 
      RECOMMENDED FOR DISCHARGE DURING A FISCAL YEAR UNDER ENHANCED 
      SELECTIVE DISCHARGE AUTHORITY.
    Section 638a(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (3); and
        (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs (3) 
    and (4), respectively.
    SEC. 504. REPORTS ON NUMBER AND ASSIGNMENT OF ENLISTED AIDES FOR 
      OFFICERS OF THE ARMY, NAVY, AIR FORCE, AND MARINE CORPS.
    (a) Annual Report on Number of Enlisted Aides.--Section 981 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(c) Not later than March 1 of each year, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report--
        ``(1) specifying the number of enlisted aides authorized and 
    allocated for general officers and flag officers of the Army, Navy, 
    Air Force, Marine Corps, and joint pool as of September 30 of the 
    previous year; and
        ``(2) justifying, on a billet-by-billet basis, the 
    authorization and assignment of each enlisted aide to each general 
    officer and flag officer position.''.
    (b) Report on Reduction in Number of Enlisted Aides and 
Authorization and Assignment Procedures and Duties.--Not later than 
June 30, 2015, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees 
on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
report containing the following:
        (1) A list of the official military and official 
    representational duties that each Secretary of a military 
    department--
            (A) authorizes enlisted aides to perform on the personal 
        staffs of officers of an Armed Force under the jurisdiction of 
        the Secretary concerned; and
            (B) considers necessary to be performed by enlisted aides 
        to relieve the officers from minor duties, which, if performed 
        by the officers, would be done at the expense of the officers' 
        primary military or official duties.
        (2) Subject to the limitations in section 981 of title 10, 
    United States Code, the procedures used for allocating authorized 
    enlisted aides--
            (A) between the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps and 
        the joint pool;
            (B) within each Armed Force, including the regulations 
        prescribed by the Secretaries of the military departments 
        regarding the allocation of enlisted aides; and
            (C) within the joint pool.
        (3) The justification, on a billet-by-billet basis, for the 
    authorization and assignment of each enlisted aide to each general 
    officer and flag officer position as of September 30, 2014.
        (4) Such recommendations as the Secretary of Defense considers 
    appropriate for changes to the statutory method of calculating the 
    authorized number of enlisted aides.
    (c) Report Objective.--In developing the report required by 
subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall have the objective of 
reducing the maximum number of enlisted aides authorized and allocated 
for general officers and flag offers by 40, subject to the validation 
of duties under subsection (b)(1) and the billet-by-billet 
justification of positions under subsection (b)(3).
    (d) Comptroller General Review.--
        (1) Review required.--The Comptroller General of the United 
    States shall review the report submitted by the Secretary of 
    Defense under subsection (b).
        (2) Elements of review.--The review under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) An assessment of the methodology used by the Secretary 
        of Defense in satisfying the requirements imposed by paragraphs 
        (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (b).
            (B) An assessment of the adequacy of the data used by the 
        Secretary to support the conclusions contained in the report.
        (3) Report on results of review.--Not later than 180 days after 
    the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits the report under 
    subsection (b), the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a report on the review conducted under paragraph 
    (1).
    SEC. 505. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS OF 
      ANNUAL REPORTS ON JOINT OFFICER MANAGEMENT AND PROMOTION POLICY 
      OBJECTIVES FOR JOINT OFFICERS.
    (a) Repeal of Annual Reports.--
        (1) Joint officer management.--Section 667 of title 10, United 
    States Code, is repealed.
        (2) Promotion policy objectives for joint officers.--Section 
    662 of such title is amended--
            (A) by striking ``(a) Qualifications.--''; and
            (B) by striking subsection (b).
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 38 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 667.
    SEC. 506. OPTIONS FOR PHASE II OF JOINT PROFESSIONAL MILITARY 
      EDUCATION.
    Section 2154(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``consisting of a joint professional military education 
curriculum'' and all that follows through the period at the end and 
inserting the following: ``consisting of--
            ``(A) a joint professional military education curriculum 
        taught in residence at the Joint Forces Staff College or a 
        senior level service school that has been designated and 
        certified by the Secretary of Defense as a joint professional 
        military education institution; or
            ``(B) a senior level service course of at least ten months 
        that has been designated and certified by the Secretary of 
        Defense as a joint professional military education course.''.
    SEC. 507. ELIMINATION OF REQUIREMENT THAT A QUALIFIED AVIATOR OR 
      NAVAL FLIGHT OFFICER BE IN COMMAND OF AN INACTIVATED NUCLEAR-
      POWERED AIRCRAFT CARRIER BEFORE DECOMMISSIONING.
    Section 5942(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(a)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) does not apply to command of a nuclear-powered 
aircraft carrier that has been inactivated for the purpose of permanent 
decommissioning and disposal.''.
    SEC. 508. REQUIRED CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN ELEMENTS OF COMMAND 
      CLIMATE IN PERFORMANCE APPRAISALS OF COMMANDING OFFICERS.
    The Secretary of a military department shall ensure that the 
performance appraisal of a commanding officer in an Armed Force under 
the jurisdiction of that Secretary indicates the extent to which the 
commanding officer has or has not established a command climate in 
which--
        (1) allegations of sexual assault are properly managed and 
    fairly evaluated; and
        (2) a victim of criminal activity, including sexual assault, 
    can report the criminal activity without fear of retaliation, 
    including ostracism and group pressure from other members of the 
    command.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

    SEC. 511. RETENTION ON THE RESERVE ACTIVE-STATUS LIST FOLLOWING 
      NONSELECTION FOR PROMOTION OF CERTAIN HEALTH PROFESSIONS OFFICERS 
      AND FIRST LIEUTENANTS AND LIEUTENANTS (JUNIOR GRADE) PURSUING 
      BACCALAUREATE DEGREES.
    (a) Retention of Certain First Lieutenants and Lieutenants (Junior 
Grade) Following Nonselection for Promotion.--Subsection (a)(1) of 
section 14701 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``A reserve officer of'' and inserting ``(A) A 
    reserve officer of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps 
    described in subparagraph (B) who is required to be removed from 
    the reserve active-status list under section 14504 of this title, 
    or a reserve officer of'';
        (2) by striking ``of this title may, subject to the needs of 
    the service and to section 14509 of this title,'' and inserting 
    ``of this title, may''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
    ``(B) A reserve officer covered by this subparagraph is a reserve 
officer of the Army, Air Force, or Marine Corps who holds the grade of 
first lieutenant, or a reserve officer of the Navy who holds the grade 
of lieutenant (junior grade), and who--
        ``(i) is a health professions officer; or
        ``(ii) is actively pursuing an undergraduate program of 
    education leading to a baccalaureate degree.
    ``(C) The consideration of a reserve officer for continuation on 
the reserve active-status list pursuant to this paragraph is subject to 
the needs of the service and to section 14509 of this title.''.
    (b) Retention of Health Professions Officers.--Such section is 
further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
    subsection (b):
    ``(b) Continuation of Health Professions Officers.--(1) 
Notwithstanding subsection (a)(6), a health professions officer 
obligated to a period of service incurred under section 16201 of this 
title who is required to be removed from the reserve active-status list 
under section 14504, 14505, 14506, or 14507 of this title and who has 
not completed a service obligation incurred under section 16201 of this 
title shall be retained on the reserve active-status list until the 
completion of such service obligation and then discharged, unless 
sooner retired or discharged under another provision of law.
    ``(2) The Secretary concerned may waive the applicability of 
paragraph (1) to any officer if the Secretary determines that 
completion of the service obligation of that officer is not in the best 
interest of the service.
    ``(3) A health professions officer who is continued on the reserve 
active-status list under this subsection who is subsequently promoted 
or whose name is on a list of officers recommended for promotion to the 
next higher grade is not required to be discharged or retired upon 
completion of the officer's service obligation. Such officer may 
continue on the reserve active-status list as other officers of the 
same grade unless separated under another provision of law.''.
    SEC. 512. CONSULTATION WITH CHIEF OF THE NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU IN 
      SELECTION OF DIRECTORS AND DEPUTY DIRECTORS, ARMY NATIONAL GUARD 
      AND AIR NATIONAL GUARD.
    (a) Role of Chief of the National Guard Bureau.--Paragraph (1) of 
section 10506(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``(after consultation 
    with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau)'' after ``selected by 
    the Secretary of the Army''; and
        (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``(after consultation 
    with the Chief of the National Guard Bureau)'' after ``selected by 
    the Secretary of the Air Force''.
    (b) Clarifying Amendment.--Paragraph (2) of such section is amended 
by striking ``The officers so selected'' and inserting ``The Director 
and Deputy Director, Army National Guard, and the Director and Deputy 
Director, Air National Guard,''.
    (c) Repeal of Obsolete Provision.--Paragraph (3) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) by striking subparagraph (D); and
        (2) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (D).
    (d) Application of Amendments.--The amendments made by subsection 
(a) shall apply with respect to assignments to the National Guard 
Bureau under section 10506 of title 10, United States Code, that occur 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 513. CENTRALIZED DATABASE OF INFORMATION ON MILITARY 
      TECHNICIAN POSITIONS.
    (a) Centralized Database Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
establish and maintain a centralized database of information on 
military technician positions that will contain and set forth current 
information on all military technician positions of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Elements.--
        (1) Identification of positions.--The database required by 
    subsection (a) shall identify each military technician position, 
    whether dual-status or non-dual status.
        (2) Additional details.--For each military technician position 
    identified pursuant to paragraph (1), the database required by 
    subsection (a) shall include the following:
            (A) A description of the functions of the position.
            (B) A statement of the military necessity for the position.
            (C) A statement of whether the position is--
                (i) a general administration, clerical, or office 
            service occupation; or
                (ii) directly related to the maintenance of military 
            readiness.
    (c) Consultation.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish the 
database required by subsection (a) in consultation with the 
Secretaries of the military departments.
    (d) Implementation Report.--Not later than September 1, 2015, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report describing the 
progress made in establishing the database required by subsection (a).
    SEC. 514. REPORT ON MANAGEMENT OF PERSONNEL RECORDS OF MEMBERS OF 
      THE NATIONAL GUARD.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than December 1, 2015, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report regarding the 
management of personnel records of members of the Army National Guard 
of the United States and the Air Guard of the United States.
    (b) Elements of Report.--In preparing the report under subsection 
(a), the Secretary of Defense shall assess the following:
        (1) The roles and responsibilities of States and Federal 
    agencies in the management of the records of members of the Army 
    National Guard of the United States and the Air Guard of the United 
    States.
        (2) The extent to which States have digitized the records of 
    National Guard members.
        (3) The extent to which States and Federal agencies have the 
    capability to share digitized records of National Guard members.
        (4) The measures required to correct deficiencies, if any, 
    noted by the Secretary of Defense in the capability of Federal 
    agencies to effectively manage the records of National Guard 
    members.
        (5) The authorities, responsibilities, processes, and 
    procedures for the maintenance and disposition of the records of 
    National Guard members who--
            (A) are discharged or separated from the National Guard;
            (B) are transferred to the Retired Reserve; or
            (C) but for age, would be eligible for retired or retainer 
        pay.

                Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

    SEC. 521. ENHANCEMENT OF PARTICIPATION OF MENTAL HEALTH 
      PROFESSIONALS IN BOARDS FOR CORRECTION OF MILITARY RECORDS AND 
      BOARDS FOR REVIEW OF DISCHARGE OR DISMISSAL OF MEMBERS OF THE 
      ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Boards for Correction of Military Records.--Section 1552 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
    subsection (g):
    ``(g) Any medical advisory opinion issued to a board established 
under subsection (a)(1) with respect to a member or former member of 
the armed forces who was diagnosed while serving in the armed forces as 
experiencing a mental health disorder shall include the opinion of a 
clinical psychologist or psychiatrist if the request for correction of 
records concerned relates to a mental health disorder.''.
    (b) Boards for Review of Discharge or Dismissal.--
        (1) Review for certain former members with ptsd or tbi.--
    Subsection (d)(1) of section 1553 of such title is amended by 
    striking ``physician, clinical psychologist, or psychiatrist'' the 
    second place it appears and inserting ``clinical psychologist or 
    psychiatrist, or a physician with training on mental health issues 
    connected with post traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain 
    injury (as applicable)''.
        (2) Review for certain former members with mental health 
    diagnoses.--Such section is further amended by adding at the end 
    the following new subsection:
    ``(e) In the case of a former member of the armed forces (other 
than a former member covered by subsection (d)) who was diagnosed while 
serving in the armed forces as experiencing a mental health disorder, a 
board established under this section to review the former member's 
discharge or dismissal shall include a member who is a clinical 
psychologist or psychiatrist, or a physician with special training on 
mental health disorders.''.
    SEC. 522. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT PROGRAMS ON CAREER 
      FLEXIBILITY TO ENHANCE RETENTION OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Extension of Program Authority.--Subsection (m) of section 533 
of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. prec. 701 note) is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``No member'';
        (2) by striking ``December 31, 2015'' and inserting ``December 
    31, 2019''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) A member may not be reactivated to active duty in the Armed 
Forces under a pilot program conducted under this section after 
December 31, 2022.''.
    (b) Reporting Requirements.--Subsection (k) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and 2017'' and inserting 
    ``2017, and 2019'';
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``March 1, 2019'' and 
    inserting ``March 1, 2023''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) Additional elements for final report.--In addition to the 
    elements required by paragraph (3), the final report under this 
    subsection shall include the following:
            ``(A) A description of the costs to each military 
        department of each pilot program conducted under this section.
            ``(B) A description of the reasons why members choose to 
        participate in the pilot programs.
            ``(C) A description of the members who did not return to 
        active duty at the conclusion of their inactivation from active 
        duty under the pilot programs, and a statement of the reasons 
        why the members did not return to active duty.
            ``(D) A statement whether members were required to perform 
        inactive duty training as part of their participation in the 
        pilot programs, and if so, a description of the members who 
        were required to perform such inactive duty training, a 
        statement of the reasons why the members were required to 
        perform such inactive duty training, and a description of how 
        often the members were required to perform such inactive duty 
        training.''.
    SEC. 523. PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
      ON PRIVACY RIGHTS RELATING TO RECEIPT OF MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES.
    (a) Provision of Information Required.--The Secretaries of the 
military departments shall ensure that the information described in 
subsection (b) is provided--
        (1) to each officer candidate during initial training;
        (2) to each recruit during basic training; and
        (3) to other members of the Armed Forces at such times as the 
    Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.
    (b) Required Information.--The information required to be provided 
under subsection (a) shall include information on the applicability of 
the Department of Defense Instruction on Privacy of Individually 
Identifiable Health Information in DoD Health Care Programs and other 
regulations regarding privacy prescribed pursuant to the Health 
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-
191) to records regarding a member of the Armed Forces seeking and 
receiving mental health services.
    SEC. 524. REMOVAL OF ARTIFICIAL BARRIERS TO THE SERVICE OF WOMEN IN 
      THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Role of Secretary of Defense in Development of Gender-neutral 
Occupational Standards.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the 
gender-neutral occupational standards being developed by the 
Secretaries of the military departments pursuant to section 543 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (Public Law 
103-160; 10 U.S.C. 113 note), as amended by section 523 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 
Stat. 756)--
        (1) accurately predict performance of actual, regular, and 
    recurring duties of a military occupation; and
        (2) are applied equitably to measure individual capabilities.
    (b) Female Personal Protection Gear.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall direct each Secretary of a military department to take immediate 
steps to ensure that combat equipment distributed to female members of 
the Armed Forces--
        (1) is properly designed and fitted; and
        (2) meets required standards for wear and survivability.
    (c) Review of Outreach and Recruitment Efforts Focused on 
Officers.--
        (1) Review required.--The Comptroller General of the United 
    States shall conduct a review of Services' Outreach and Recruitment 
    Efforts gauged toward women representation in the officer corps.
        (2) Elements of review.--In conducting the review under this 
    subsection, the Comptroller General shall--
            (A) identify and evaluate current initiatives the Armed 
        Forces are using to increase accession of women into the 
        officer corps;
            (B) identify new recruiting efforts to increase accessions 
        of women into the officer corps specifically at the military 
        service academies, Officer Candidate Schools, Officer Training 
        Schools, the Academy of Military Science, and Reserve Officer 
        Training Corps; and
            (C) identify efforts, resources, and funding required to 
        increase military service academy accessions by women.
        (3) Submission of results.--Not later than October 1, 2015, the 
    Comptroller General shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
    Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
    containing the results of the review under this subsection.

  Subtitle D--Military Justice, Including Sexual Assault and Domestic 
                    Violence Prevention and Response

    SEC. 531. TECHNICAL REVISIONS AND CLARIFICATIONS OF CERTAIN 
      PROVISIONS IN THE NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL 
      YEAR 2014 RELATING TO THE MILITARY JUSTICE SYSTEM.
    (a) Revisions of Article 32 and Article 60, Uniform Code of 
Military Justice.--
        (1) Explicit authority for convening authority to take action 
    on findings of a court-martial with respect to a qualifying 
    offense.--Paragraph (3) of subsection (c) of section 860 of title 
    10, United States Code (article 60 of the Uniform Code of Military 
    Justice), as amended by section 1702(b) of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 955), is 
    amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``and may be taken 
        only with respect to a qualifying offense'' after ``is not 
        required'';
            (B) in subparagraph (B)(i)--
                (i) by striking ``, other than a charge or 
            specification for a qualifying offense,''; and
                (ii) by inserting ``, but may take such action with 
            respect to a qualifying offense'' after ``thereto''; and
            (C) in subparagraph (B)(ii)--
                (i) by striking ``, other than a charge or 
            specification for a qualifying offense,''; and
                (ii) by inserting ``, but may take such action with 
            respect to a qualifying offense'' before the period.
        (2) Clarification of applicability of requirement for 
    explanation in writing for modification to findings of a court-
    martial.--Paragraph (3)(C) of subsection (c) of section 860 of 
    title 10, United States Code (article 60 of the Uniform Code of 
    Military Justice), as amended by section 1702(b) of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 
    955), is amended by striking ``(other than a qualifying offense)''.
        (3) Victim submission of matters for consideration by convening 
    authority during clemency phase of courts-martial process.--
    Subsection (d) of section 860 of title 10, United States Code 
    (article 60 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by 
    section 1706(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal 
    Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 960), is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (2)(A)--
                (i) in clause (i), by inserting ``, if applicable'' 
            after ``(article 54(e))''; and
                (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ``if applicable,''; 
            and
            (B) in paragraph (5), by striking ``loss'' and inserting 
        ``harm''.
        (4) Restoration of waiver of article 32 hearings by the 
    accused.--
            (A) In general.--Section 832(a)(1) of title 10, United 
        States Code (article 32(a)(1) of the Uniform Code of Military 
        Justice), as amended by section 1702(a)(1) of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-
        66; 127 Stat. 954), is amended by inserting ``, unless such 
        hearing is waived by the accused'' after ``preliminary 
        hearing''.
            (B) Conforming amendment.--Section 834(a)(2) of such title 
        (article 34(a)(2) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as 
        amended by section 1702(c)(3)(B) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 
        Stat. 957), is amended by inserting ``(if there is such a 
        report)'' after ``a preliminary hearing under section 832 of 
        this title (article 32)''.
        (5) Non-applicability of prohibition on pre-trial agreements 
    for certain offenses with mandatory minimum sentences.--Section 
    860(c)(4)(C)(ii) of title 10, United States Code (article 
    60(c)(4)(C)(ii) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as 
    amended by section 1702(b) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 955), is 
    amended by inserting ``pursuant to section 856(b) of this title 
    (article 56(b))'' after ``applies''.
    (b) Defense Counsel Interview of Victim of an Alleged Sex-Related 
Offense.--
        (1) Requests to interview victim through counsel.--Subsection 
    (b)(1) of section 846 of title 10, United States Code (article 
    46(b) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by 
    section 1704 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
    Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 958), is amended by 
    striking ``through trial counsel'' and inserting ``through the 
    Special Victims' Counsel or other counsel for the victim, if 
    applicable''.
        (2) Correction of references to trial counsel.--Such section is 
    further amended by striking ``trial counsel'' each place it appears 
    and inserting ``counsel for the Government''.
        (3) Correction of references to defense counsel.--Such section 
    is further amended--
            (A) in the heading, by striking ``Defense Counsel'' and 
        inserting ``Counsel for Accused''; and
            (B) by striking ``defense counsel'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``counsel for the accused''.
    (c) Special Victims' Counsel for Victims of Sex-Related Offenses.--
Section 1044e of title 10, United States Code, as added by section 
1716(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 
(Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 966), is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(4), by striking ``the Department of 
    Defense'' and inserting ``the United States'';
        (2) in subsection (d)(2), by inserting ``, and within the 
    Marine Corps, by the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the 
    Marine Corps'' after ``employed''; and
        (3) in subsection (e)(1), by inserting ``concerned'' after 
    ``jurisdiction of the Secretary''.
    (d) Repeal of Offense of Consensual Sodomy Under the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice.--
        (1) Clarification of definition of forcible sodomy.--Section 
    925(a) of title 10, United States Code (article 125(a) of the 
    Uniform Code of Military Justice), as amended by section 1707 of 
    the National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2014 (Public 
    Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 961), is amended by striking ``force'' and 
    inserting ``unlawful force''.
        (2) Conforming amendments.--
            (A) Article 43.--Section 843(b)(2)(B) of such title 
        (article 43(b)(2)(B) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) 
        is amended--
                (i) in clause (iii), by striking ``Sodomy'' and 
            inserting ``Forcible sodomy''; and
                (ii) in clause (v), by striking ``sodomy'' and 
            inserting ``forcible sodomy''.
            (B) Article 118.--Section 918(4) of such title (article 
        118(4) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice) is amended by 
        striking ``sodomy'' and inserting ``forcible sodomy''.
    (e) Clarification of Scope of Prospective Members of the Armed 
Forces for Purposes of Inappropriate and Prohibited Relationships.--
Section 1741(e)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 977; 10 U.S.C. prec. 501 note) 
is amended by inserting ``who is pursuing or has recently pursued 
becoming a member of the Armed Forces and'' after ``a person''.
    (f) Extension of Crime Victims' Rights to Victims of Offenses Under 
the Uniform Code of Military Justice.--
        (1) Clarification of limitation on definition of victim to 
    natural persons.--Subsection (b) of section 806b of title 10, 
    United States Code (article 6b of the Uniform Code of Military 
    Justice), as added by section 1701 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 
    Stat. 952), is amended by striking ``a person'' and inserting ``an 
    individual''.
        (2) Clarification of authority to appoint individuals to assume 
    rights of certain victims.--Subsection (c) of such section is 
    amended--
            (A) in the heading, by striking ``Legal Guardian'' and 
        inserting ``Appointment of Individuals to Assume Rights'';
            (B) by inserting ``(but who is not a member of the armed 
        forces)'' after ``under 18 years of age'';
            (C) by striking ``designate a legal guardian from among the 
        representatives'' and inserting ``designate a representative'';
            (D) by striking ``other suitable person'' and inserting 
        ``another suitable individual''; and
            (E) by striking ``the person'' and inserting ``the 
        individual''.
    (g) Revision to Effective Dates to Facilitate Transition to Revised 
Rules for Preliminary Hearing Requirements and Convening Authority 
Action Post-Conviction.--
        (1) Effective date for amendments related to article 32.--
    Effective as of December 26, 2013, and as if included therein as 
    enacted, section 1702(d)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 958; 10 
    U.S.C. 802 note, 832 note) is amended by striking ``one year 
    after'' and all that follows through the end of the sentence and 
    inserting ``on the later of December 26, 2014, or the date of the 
    enactment of the Carl Levin and Howard P. `Buck' McKeon National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 and shall apply with 
    respect to preliminary hearings conducted on or after that 
    effective date.''.
        (2) Transition rule for amendments related to article 60.--
            (A) Transition rule.--Section 1702(d)(2) of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-
        66; 127 Stat. 958; 10 U.S.C. 860 note) is amended--
                (i) by striking ``The amendments'' and inserting ``(A) 
            Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the amendments''; 
            and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
            subparagraph:
        ``(B) With respect to the findings and sentence of a court-
    martial that includes both a conviction for an offense committed 
    before the effective date specified in subparagraph (A) and a 
    conviction for an offense committed on or after that effective 
    date, the convening authority shall have the same authority to take 
    action on such findings and sentence as was in effect on the day 
    before such effective date, except with respect to a mandatory 
    minimum sentence under section 856(b) of title 10, United States 
    Code (article 56(b) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).''.
            (B) Application of amendments.--The amendments made by 
        subparagraph (A) shall not apply to the findings and sentence 
        of a court-martial with respect to which the convening 
        authority has taken action before the date that is 30 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 532. ORDERING OF DEPOSITIONS UNDER THE UNIFORM CODE OF 
      MILITARY JUSTICE.
    Subsection (a) of section 849 of title 10, United States Code 
(article 49 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(a)(1) At any time after charges have been signed as provided in 
section 830 of this title (article 30), oral or written depositions may 
be ordered as follows:
        ``(A) Before referral of such charges for trial, by the 
    convening authority who has such charges for disposition.
        ``(B) After referral of such charges for trial, by the 
    convening authority or the military judge hearing the case.
    ``(2) An authority authorized to order a deposition under paragraph 
(1) may order the deposition at the request of any party, but only if 
the party demonstrates that, due to exceptional circumstances, it is in 
the interest of justice that the testimony of the prospective witness 
be taken and preserved for use at a preliminary hearing under section 
832 of this title (article 32) or a court-martial.
    ``(3) If a deposition is to be taken before charges are referred 
for trial, the authority under paragraph (1)(A) may designate 
commissioned officers as counsel for the Government and counsel for the 
accused, and may authorize those officers to take the deposition of any 
witness.''.
    SEC. 533. ACCESS TO SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1044e of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Designation; Purposes.--(1) The Secretary concerned shall 
designate legal counsel (to be known as `Special Victims' Counsel') for 
the purpose of providing legal assistance to an individual described in 
paragraph (2) who is the victim of an alleged sex-related offense, 
regardless of whether the report of that offense is restricted or 
unrestricted.
    ``(2) An individual described in this paragraph is any of the 
following:
        ``(A) An individual eligible for military legal assistance 
    under section 1044 of this title.
        ``(B) An individual who is--
            ``(i) not covered under subparagraph (A);
            ``(ii) a member of a reserve component of the armed forces; 
        and
            ``(iii) a victim of an alleged sex-related offense as 
        described in paragraph (1)--
                ``(I) during a period in which the individual served on 
            active duty, full-time National Guard duty, or inactive-
            duty training; or
                ``(II) during any period, regardless of the duty status 
            of the individual, if the circumstances of the alleged sex-
            related offense have a nexus to the military service of the 
            victim, as determined under regulations prescribed by the 
            Secretary of Defense.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Subsection (f) of such section is 
amended by striking ``eligible for military legal assistance under 
section 1044 of this title'' each place it appears and inserting 
``described in subsection (a)(2)''.
    SEC. 534. ENHANCEMENT OF VICTIMS' RIGHTS IN CONNECTION WITH 
      PROSECUTION OF CERTAIN SEX-RELATED OFFENSES.
    (a) Representation by Special Victims' Counsel.--Section 
1044e(b)(6) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``Accompanying the victim'' and inserting ``Representing the victim''.
    (b) Consultation Regarding Victim's Preference in Prosecution 
Venue.--
        (1) Consultation process required.--The Secretary of Defense 
    shall establish a process to ensure consultation with the victim of 
    an alleged sex-related offense that occurs in the United States to 
    solicit the victim's preference regarding whether the offense 
    should be prosecuted by court-martial or in a civilian court with 
    jurisdiction over the offense.
        (2) Convening authority consideration of preference.--The 
    preference expressed by the victim of an alleged sex-related 
    offense under paragraph (1) regarding the prosecution of the 
    offense, while not binding, should be considered by the convening 
    authority in making the determination regarding whether to refer 
    the charge or specification for the offense to a court-martial for 
    trial.
        (3) Notice to appropriate jurisdiction of victim's preference 
    for civilian prosecution.--If the victim of an alleged sex-related 
    offense expresses a preference under paragraph (1) for prosecution 
    of the offense in a civilian court, the convening authority 
    described in paragraph (2) shall ensure that the civilian authority 
    with jurisdiction over the offense is notified of the victim's 
    preference for civilian prosecution.
        (4) Notice to victim of status of civilian prosecution when 
    victim expresses preference for civilian prosecution.--Following 
    notification of the civilian authority with jurisdiction over an 
    alleged sex-related offense of the preference of the victim of the 
    offense for prosecution of the offense in a civilian court, the 
    convening authority shall be responsible for notifying the victim 
    if the convening authority learns of any decision by the civilian 
    authority to prosecute or not prosecute the offence in a civilian 
    court.
    (c) Modification of Manual for Courts-Martial.--Not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, Part III of the 
Manual for Courts-Martial shall be modified to provide that when a 
victim of an alleged sex-related offense has a right to be heard in 
connection with the prosecution of the alleged sex-related such 
offense, the victim may exercise that right through counsel, including 
through a Special Victims' Counsel under section 1044e of title 10, 
United States Code (as amended by subsection (a)).
    (d) Notice to Counsel on Scheduling of Proceedings.--The Secretary 
concerned shall establish policies and procedures designed to ensure 
that any counsel of the victim of an alleged sex-related offense, 
including a Special Victims' Counsel under section 1044e of title 10, 
United States Code (as amended by subsection (a)), is provided prompt 
and adequate notice of the scheduling of any hearing, trial, or other 
proceeding in connection with the prosecution of such offense in order 
to permit such counsel the opportunity to prepare for such proceeding.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``alleged sex-related offense'' has the meaning 
    given that term in section 1044e(g) of title 10, United States 
    Code.
        (2) The term ``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 101(a)(9) of such title.
    SEC. 535. ENFORCEMENT OF CRIME VICTIMS' RIGHTS RELATED TO 
      PROTECTIONS AFFORDED BY CERTAIN MILITARY RULES OF EVIDENCE.
    Section 806b of title 10, United States Code (article 6b of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(e) Enforcement by Court of Criminal Appeals.--(1) If the victim 
of an offense under this chapter believes that a court-martial ruling 
violates the victim's rights afforded by a Military Rule of Evidence 
specified in paragraph (2), the victim may petition the Court of 
Criminal Appeals for a writ of mandamus to require the court-martial to 
comply with the Military Rule of Evidence.
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) applies with respect to the protections 
afforded by the following:
        ``(A) Military Rule of Evidence 513, relating to the 
    psychotherapist-patient privilege.
        ``(B) Military Rule of Evidence 412, relating to the admission 
    of evidence regarding a victim's sexual background.''.
    SEC. 536. MODIFICATION OF MILITARY RULES OF EVIDENCE RELATING TO 
      ADMISSIBILITY OF GENERAL MILITARY CHARACTER TOWARD PROBABILITY OF 
      INNOCENCE.
    (a) Modification Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, Rule 404(a) of the Military Rules of 
Evidence shall be amended to provide that the general military 
character of an accused is not admissible for the purpose of showing 
the probability of innocence of the accused for an offense specified in 
subsection (b).
    (b) Covered Offenses.--Subsection (a) applies to the following 
offenses under chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice):
        (1) An offense under sections 920 through 923a of such title 
    (articles 120 through 123a).
        (2) An offense under sections 925 through 927 of such title 
    (articles 125 through 127).
        (3) An offense under sections 929 through 932 of such title 
    (articles 129 through 132).
        (4) Any other offense under such chapter (the Uniform Code of 
    Military Justice) in which evidence of the general military 
    character of the accused is not relevant to an element of an 
    offense for which the accused has been charged.
        (5) An attempt to commit an offense or a conspiracy to commit 
    an offense specified in a preceding paragraph as punishable under 
    section 880 or 881 of such title (article 80 or 81).
    SEC. 537. MODIFICATION OF RULE 513 OF THE MILITARY RULES OF 
      EVIDENCE, RELATING TO THE PRIVILEGE AGAINST DISCLOSURE OF 
      COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN PSYCHOTHERAPISTS AND PATIENTS.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, Rule 513 of the Military Rules of Evidence shall be modified as 
follows:
        (1) To include communications with other licensed mental health 
    professionals within the communications covered by the privilege.
        (2) To strike the current exception to the privilege contained 
    in subparagraph (d)(8) of Rule 513.
        (3) To require a party seeking production or admission of 
    records or communications protected by the privilege--
            (A) to show a specific factual basis demonstrating a 
        reasonable likelihood that the records or communications would 
        yield evidence admissible under an exception to the privilege;
            (B) to demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that 
        the requested information meets one of the enumerated 
        exceptions to the privilege;
            (C) to show that the information sought is not merely 
        cumulative of other information available; and
            (D) to show that the party made reasonable efforts to 
        obtain the same or substantially similar information through 
        non-privileged sources.
        (4) To authorize the military judge to conduct a review in 
    camera of records or communications only when--
            (A) the moving party has met its burden as established 
        pursuant to paragraph (3); and
            (B) an examination of the information is necessary to rule 
        on the production or admissibility of protected records or 
        communications.
        (5) To require that any production or disclosure permitted by 
    the military judge be narrowly tailored to only the specific 
    records or communications, or portions of such records or 
    communications, that meet the requirements for one of the 
    enumerated exceptions to the privilege and are included in the 
    stated purpose for which the such records or communications are 
    sought.
    SEC. 538. MODIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE POLICY ON RETENTION 
      OF EVIDENCE IN A SEXUAL ASSAULT CASE TO PERMIT RETURN OF PERSONAL 
      PROPERTY UPON COMPLETION OF RELATED PROCEEDINGS.
    Section 586 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1434; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Return of Personal Property Upon Completion of Related 
Proceedings.--Notwithstanding subsection (c)(4)(A), personal property 
retained as evidence in connection with an incident of sexual assault 
involving a member of the Armed Forces may be returned to the rightful 
owner of such property after the conclusion of all legal, adverse 
action, and administrative proceedings related to such incident.''.
    SEC. 539. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO SEXUAL ASSAULT FORENSIC 
      EXAMINERS FOR THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Personnel Eligible for Assignment.--
        (1) Specified personnel.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
    an individual who may be assigned to duty as a Sexual Assault 
    Forensic Examiner (SAFE) for the Armed Forces is limited to members 
    of the Armed Forces and civilian employees of the Department of 
    Defense who are also one of the following:
            (A) A physician.
            (B) A nurse practitioner.
            (C) A nurse midwife.
            (D) A physician assistant.
            (E) A registered nurse.
        (2) Independent duty corpsmen.--An independent duty corpsman or 
    equivalent may be assigned to duty as a Sexual Assault Forensic 
    Examiner for the Armed Forces if the assignment of an individual 
    specified in paragraph (1) is impracticable.
    (b) Training and Certification.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish and 
    maintain, and update when appropriate, a training and certification 
    program for Sexual Assault Forensic Examiners. The training and 
    certification programs shall apply uniformly to all Sexual Assault 
    Forensic Examiners under the jurisdiction of the Secretaries of the 
    military departments.
        (2) Elements.--Each training and certification program under 
    this subsection shall include training in sexual assault forensic 
    examinations by qualified personnel who possess--
            (A) a Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner--Adult/Adolescent 
        (SANE-A) certification or equivalent certification; or
            (B) training and clinical or forensic experience in sexual 
        assault forensic examinations similar to that required for a 
        certification described in subparagraph (A).
        (3) Nature of training.--The training provided under each 
    training and certification program under this subsection shall 
    incorporate and reflect current best practices and standards on 
    sexual assault forensic examinations.
        (4) Applicability of training requirements.--Effective 
    beginning one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, an 
    individual may not be assigned to duty as a Sexual Assault Forensic 
    Examiner for the Armed Forces unless the individual has completed, 
    by the date of such assignment, all training required under the 
    training and certification program under this subsection.
    (c) Report on Training and Qualifications of Sexual Assault 
Forensic Examiners.--
        (1) Report required.--The Secretary of Defense shall prepare a 
    report on the adequacy of the training and qualifications of each 
    member of the Armed Forces and civilian employee of the Department 
    of Defense who is assigned responsibilities of a Sexual Assault 
    Forensic Examiner.
        (2) Report elements.--The report shall include the following:
            (A) An assessment of the adequacy of the training and 
        certifications required for the members and employees described 
        in paragraph (1).
            (B) Such improvements as the Secretary of Defense considers 
        appropriate in the process used to select and assign members 
        and employees to positions that include responsibility for 
        sexual assault forensic examinations.
            (C) Such improvements as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate for training and certifying member and employees 
        that perform sexual assault forensic examinations.
        (3) Submission.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit the 
    report to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
    Representatives and the Senate.
    (d) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Conforming amendments.--Subsection (b) of section 1725 of 
    the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public 
    Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 971) is amended--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Nurse 
        Examiners'' and inserting ``Forensic Examiners'';
            (B) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by striking ``sexual assault 
        nurse examiner'' each place it appears and inserting ``Sexual 
        Assault Forensic Examiner'';
            (C) in paragraph (1), by striking ``sexual assault nurse 
        examiners'' and inserting ``Sexual Assault Forensic 
        Examiners''; and
            (D) by striking paragraph (3).
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The heading of such section is amended 
    by striking ``nurse examiners'' and inserting ``forensic 
    examiners''.
    SEC. 540. MODIFICATION OF TERM OF JUDGES OF THE UNITED STATES COURT 
      OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Modification of Terms.--Section 942(b)(2) of title 10, United 
States Code (article 142(b)(2) of the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice), is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A)--
            (A) by striking ``March 31'' and inserting ``January 31'';
            (B) by striking ``October 1'' and inserting ``July 31''; 
        and
            (C) by striking ``September 30'' and inserting ``July 31''; 
        and
        (2) in subparagraph (B)--
            (A) by striking ``September 30'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``July 31''; and
            (B) by striking ``April 1'' and inserting ``February 1''.
    (b) Saving Provision.--No person who is serving as a judge of the 
court on the date of the enactment of this Act, and no survivor of any 
such person, shall be deprived of any annuity provided by section 945 
of title 10, United States Code, by the operation of the amendments 
made by subsection (a).
    SEC. 541. REVIEW OF DECISIONS NOT TO REFER CHARGES OF CERTAIN SEX-
      RELATED OFFENSES FOR TRIAL BY COURT-MARTIAL IF REQUESTED BY CHIEF 
      PROSECUTOR.
    Section 1744(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 981; 10 U.S.C. 834 note) 
is amended--
        (1) by striking ``(c)'' and all that follows through ``In any 
    case where'' and inserting the following:
    ``(c) Review of Certain Cases Not Referred to Court-martial.--
        ``(1) Cases not referred following staff judge advocate 
    recommendation for referral for trial.--In any case where''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) Cases not referred by convening authority upon request 
    for review by chief prosecutor.--
            ``(A) In general.--In any case where a convening authority 
        decides not to refer a charge of a sex-related offense to trial 
        by court-martial, the Secretary of the military department 
        concerned shall review the decision as a superior authority 
        authorized to exercise general court-martial convening 
        authority if the chief prosecutor of the Armed Force concerned, 
        in response to a request by the detailed counsel for the 
        Government, requests review of the decision by the Secretary.
            ``(B) Chief prosecutor defined.--In this paragraph, the 
        term `chief prosecutor' means the chief prosecutor or 
        equivalent position of an Armed Force, or, if an Armed Force 
        does not have a chief prosecutor or equivalent position, such 
        other trial counsel as shall be designated by the Judge 
        Advocate General of that Armed Force, or in the case of the 
        Marine Corps, the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the 
        Marine Corps.''.
    SEC. 542. ANALYSIS AND ASSESSMENT OF DISPOSITION OF MOST SERIOUS 
      OFFENSES IDENTIFIED IN UNRESTRICTED REPORTS ON SEXUAL ASSAULTS IN 
      ANNUAL REPORTS ON SEXUAL ASSAULTS IN THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Submittal to Secretary of Defense of Information on Each Armed 
Force.--Subsection (b) of section 1631 of the Ike Skelton National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (10 U.S.C. 1561 note) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(11) An analysis of the disposition of the most serious 
    offenses occurring during sexual assaults committed by members of 
    the Armed Force during the year covered by the report, as 
    identified in unrestricted reports of sexual assault by any members 
    of the Armed Forces, including the numbers of reports identifying 
    offenses that were disposed of by each of the following:
            ``(A) Conviction by court-martial, including a separate 
        statement of the most serious charge preferred and the most 
        serious charge for which convicted.
            ``(B) Acquittal of all charges at court-martial.
            ``(C) Non-judicial punishment under section 815 of title 
        10, United States Code (article 15 of the Uniform Code of 
        Military Justice).
            ``(D) Administrative action, including by each type of 
        administrative action imposed.
            ``(E) Dismissal of all charges, including by reason for 
        dismissal and by stage of proceedings in which dismissal 
        occurred.''.
    (b) Secretary of Defense Assessment of Information in Reports to 
Congress.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (2) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
        (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraph (2):
        ``(2) an assessment of the information submitted to the 
    Secretary pursuant to subsection (b)(11); and''; and
        (4) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by paragraph (2) of this 
    subsection, by inserting ``other'' before ``assessments''.
    (c) Application of Amendments.--The amendments made by this section 
shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and apply 
beginning with the report regarding sexual assaults involving members 
of the Armed Forces required to be submitted by March 1, 2015, under 
section 1631 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2011.
    SEC. 543. PLAN FOR LIMITED USE OF CERTAIN INFORMATION ON SEXUAL 
      ASSAULTS IN RESTRICTED REPORTS BY MILITARY CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIVE 
      ORGANIZATIONS.
    (a) Plan Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a plan that will allow an individual who files a 
restricted report on an incident of sexual assault to elect to permit a 
military criminal investigative organization, on a confidential basis 
and without affecting the restricted nature of the report, to access 
certain information in the report, including identifying information of 
the alleged perpetrator if available, for the purpose of identifying 
individuals who are suspected of perpetrating multiple sexual assaults.
    (b) Plan Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) An explanation of how the military criminal investigative 
    organization would use, maintain, and protect information in the 
    restricted report.
        (2) An explanation of how the identity of an individual who 
    elects to provide access to such information will be protected.
        (3) A timeline for implementation of the plan during the one-
    year period beginning on the date of the submission of the plan to 
    the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives.
    SEC. 544. IMPROVED DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INFORMATION REPORTING AND 
      COLLECTION OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE INCIDENTS INVOLVING MEMBERS OF 
      THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Data Reporting and Collection Improvements.--Not later than one 
year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall develop a comprehensive management plan to address 
deficiencies in the reporting of information on incidents of domestic 
violence involving members of the Armed Forces for inclusion in the 
Department of Defense database on domestic violence incidents required 
by section 1562 of title 10, United States Code, to ensure that the 
database provides an accurate count of domestic violence incidents and 
any consequent disciplinary action.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 543(a) of the Ike Skelton 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 
111-383; 10 U.S.C. 1562 note) is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (1); and
        (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as paragraphs 
    (1) through (3), respectively.
    SEC. 545. ADDITIONAL DUTIES FOR JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS PANEL.
    (a) Additional Duties Imposed.--The independent panel established 
by the Secretary of Defense under section 576(a)(2) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
Stat. 1758), known as the ``judicial proceedings panel'', shall perform 
the following additional duties:
        (1) Conduct a review and assessment regarding the impact of the 
    use of any mental health records of the victim of an offense under 
    chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of 
    Military Justice), by the accused during the preliminary hearing 
    conducted under section 832 of such title (article 32 of the 
    Uniform Code of Military Justice), and during court-martial 
    proceedings, as compared to the use of similar records in civilian 
    criminal legal proceedings.
        (2) Conduct a review and assessment regarding the establishment 
    of a privilege under the Military Rules of Evidence against the 
    disclosure of communications between--
            (A) users of and personnel staffing the Department of 
        Defense Safe Helpline; and
            (B) users of and personnel staffing of the Department of 
        Defense Safe HelpRoom.
    (b) Submission of Results.--The judicial proceedings panel shall 
include the results of the reviews and assessments conducted under 
subsection (a) in one of the reports required by section 576(c)(2)(B) 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public 
Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1760).
    SEC. 546. DEFENSE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATION, PROSECUTION, 
      AND DEFENSE OF SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Establishment Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish and 
    maintain within the Department of Defense an advisory committee to 
    be known as the ``Defense Advisory Committee on Investigation, 
    Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual Assault in the Armed Forces'' 
    (in this section referred to as the ``Advisory Committee'').
        (2) Deadline for establishment.--The Secretary shall establish 
    the Advisory Committee not later than 30 days before the 
    termination date of the independent panel established by the 
    Secretary under section 576(a)(2) of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
    Stat. 1758), known as the ``judicial proceedings panel''.
    (b) Membership.--The Advisory Committee shall consist of not more 
than 20 members, to be appointed by the Secretary of Defense, who have 
experience with the investigation, prosecution, and defense of 
allegations of sexual assault offenses. Members of the Advisory 
Committee may include Federal and State prosecutors, judges, law 
professors, and private attorneys. Members of the Armed Forces serving 
on active duty may not serve as a member of the Advisory Committee.
    (c) Duties.--
        (1) In general.--The Advisory Committee shall advise the 
    Secretary of Defense on the investigation, prosecution, and defense 
    of allegations of rape, forcible sodomy, sexual assault, and other 
    sexual misconduct involving members of the Armed Forces.
        (2) Basis for provision of advice.--For purposes of providing 
    advice to the Secretary pursuant to this subsection, the Advisory 
    Committee shall review, on an ongoing basis, cases involving 
    allegations of sexual misconduct described in paragraph (1).
    (d) Annual Reports.--Not later than March 30 each year, the 
Advisory Committee shall submit to the Secretary of Defense and the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report describing the results of the activities of 
the Advisory Committee pursuant to this section during the preceding 
year.
    (e) Termination.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
    Advisory Committee shall terminate on the date that is five years 
    after the date of the establishment of the Advisory Committee 
    pursuant to subsection (a).
        (2) Continuation.--The Secretary of Defense may continue the 
    Advisory Committee after the termination date applicable under 
    paragraph (1) if the Secretary determines that continuation of the 
    Advisory Committee after that date is advisable and appropriate. If 
    the Secretary determines to continue the Advisory Committee after 
    that date, the Secretary shall submit to the President and the 
    congressional committees specified in subsection (d) a report 
    describing the reasons for that determination and specifying the 
    new termination date for the Advisory Committee.
    (f) Due Date for Annual Report of Judicial Proceedings Panel.--
Section 576(c)(2)(B) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1760) is amended by 
inserting ``annually thereafter'' after ``reports''.
    SEC. 547. CONFIDENTIAL REVIEW OF CHARACTERIZATION OF TERMS OF 
      DISCHARGE OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHO ARE VICTIMS OF 
      SEXUAL OFFENSES.
    (a) Confidential Review Process Through Boards for Correction of 
Military Records.--The Secretaries of the military departments shall 
each establish a confidential process, utilizing boards for the 
correction of military records of the military department concerned, by 
which an individual who was the victim of a sex-related offense during 
service in the Armed Forces may challenge the terms or characterization 
of the discharge or separation of the individual from the Armed Forces 
on the grounds that the terms or characterization were adversely 
affected by the individual being the victim of such an offense.
    (b) Consideration of Individual Experiences in Connection With 
Offenses.--In deciding whether to modify the terms or characterization 
of the discharge or separation from the Armed Forces of an individual 
described in subsection (a), the Secretary of the military department 
concerned shall instruct boards for the correction of military 
records--
        (1) to give due consideration to the psychological and physical 
    aspects of the individual's experience in connection with the sex-
    related offense; and
        (2) to determine what bearing such experience may have had on 
    the circumstances surrounding the individual's discharge or 
    separation from the Armed Forces.
    (c) Preservation of Confidentiality.--Documents considered and 
decisions rendered pursuant to the process required by subsection (a) 
shall not be made available to the public, except with the consent of 
the individual concerned.
    (d) Sex-related Offense Defined.--In this section, the term ``sex-
related offense'' means any of the following:
        (1) Rape or sexual assault under subsection (a) or (b) of 
    section 920 of title 10, United States Code (article 120 of the 
    Uniform Code of Military Justice).
        (2) Forcible sodomy under section 925 of such title (article 
    125 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
        (3) An attempt to commit an offense specified in paragraph (1) 
    or (2) as punishable under section 880 of such title (article 80 of 
    the Uniform Code of Military Justice).

         Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, and Transition

    SEC. 551. ENHANCEMENT OF AUTHORITY TO ASSIST MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
      FORCES TO OBTAIN PROFESSIONAL CREDENTIALS.
    (a) In General.--Section 2015 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2015. Program to assist members in obtaining professional 
    credentials
    ``(a) Program Required.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary 
of Homeland Security, with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not 
operating as a service in the Navy, shall carry out a program to enable 
members of the armed forces to obtain, while serving in the armed 
forces, professional credentials related to military training and 
skills that--
        ``(1) are acquired during service in the armed forces incident 
    to the performance of their military duties; and
        ``(2) translate into civilian occupations.
    ``(b) Payment of Expenses.--(1) Under the program required by this 
section, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland 
Security, with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a 
service in the Navy, shall provide for the payment of expenses of 
members for professional accreditation, Federal occupational licenses, 
State-imposed and professional licenses, professional certification, 
and related expenses.
    ``(2) The authority under paragraph (1) may not be used to pay the 
expenses of a member to obtain professional credentials that are a 
prerequisite for appointment in the armed forces.
    ``(c) Regulations.--(1) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary 
of Homeland Security shall prescribe regulations to carry out this 
section.
    ``(2) The regulations shall apply uniformly to the armed forces to 
the extent practicable.
    ``(3) The regulations shall include the following:
        ``(A) Requirements for eligibility for participation in the 
    program under this section.
        ``(B) A description of the professional credentials and 
    occupations covered by the program.
        ``(C) Mechanisms for oversight of the payment of expenses and 
    the provision of other benefits under the program.
        ``(D) Such other matters in connection with the payment of 
    expenses and the provision of other benefits under the program as 
    the Secretaries consider appropriate.
    ``(d) Expenses Defined.--In this section, the term `expenses' means 
expenses for class room instruction, hands-on training (and associated 
materials), manuals, study guides and materials, text books, processing 
fees, and test fees and related fees.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 101 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 2015 and inserting the following new item:

``2015. Program to assist members in obtaining professional 
          credentials.''.
    SEC. 552. APPLICABILITY OF SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE 
      AND RELATED MILITARY JUSTICE ENHANCEMENTS TO MILITARY SERVICE 
      ACADEMIES.
    (a) Military Service Academies.--The Secretary of the military 
department concerned shall ensure that the provisions of title XVII of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 
113-66; 127 Stat. 950), including amendments made by that title, and 
the provisions of subtitle D, including amendments made by such 
subtitle, apply to the United States Military Academy, the Naval 
Academy, and the Air Force Academy, as applicable.
    (b) Coast Guard Academy.--The Secretary of the Department in which 
the Coast Guard is operating shall ensure that the provisions of title 
XVII of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
(Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 950), including amendments made by that 
title, and the provisions of subtitle D, including amendments made by 
such subtitle, apply to the Coast Guard Academy.
    SEC. 553. AUTHORIZED DURATION OF FOREIGN AND CULTURAL EXCHANGE 
      ACTIVITIES AT MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES.
    (a) United States Military Academy.--Section 4345a(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``two weeks'' and inserting 
``four weeks''.
    (b) Naval Academy.--Section 6957b(a) of such title is amended by 
striking ``two weeks'' and inserting ``four weeks''.
    (c) Air Force Academy.--Section 9345a(a) of such title is amended 
by striking ``two weeks'' and inserting ``four weeks''.
    SEC. 554. ENHANCEMENT OF AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT SUPPORT FOR AIR FORCE 
      ACADEMY ATHLETIC PROGRAMS.
    Section 9362 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking subsections (e), (f), and (g) and inserting the following new 
subsections:
    ``(e) Acceptance of Support.--
        ``(1) Support received from the corporation.--Notwithstanding 
    section 1342 of title 31, the Secretary of the Air Force may accept 
    from the corporation funds, supplies, equipment, and services for 
    the support of the athletic programs of the Academy.
        ``(2) Funds received from other sources.--The Secretary may 
    charge fees for the support of the athletic programs of the 
    Academy. The Secretary may accept and retain fees for services and 
    other benefits provided incident to the operation of its athletic 
    programs, including fees from the National Collegiate Athletic 
    Association, fees from athletic conferences, game guarantees from 
    other educational institutions, fees for ticketing or licensing, 
    and other consideration provided incidental to the execution of the 
    athletic programs of the Academy.
        ``(3) Limitations.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
    contributions accepted under this subsection do not--
            ``(A) reflect unfavorably on the ability of the Department 
        of the Air Force, any of its employees, or any member of the 
        armed forces to carry out any responsibility or duty in a fair 
        and objective manner; or
            ``(B) compromise the integrity or appearance of integrity 
        of any program of the Department of the Air Force, or any 
        individual involved in such a program.
    ``(f) Leases and Licenses.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of the Air Force may, in 
    accordance with section 2667 of this title, enter into leases or 
    licenses with the corporation for the purpose of supporting the 
    athletic programs of the Academy. Consideration provided under such 
    a lease or license may be provided in the form of funds, supplies, 
    equipment, and services for the support of the athletic programs of 
    the Academy.
        ``(2) Support services.--The Secretary may provide support 
    services to the corporation without charge while the corporation 
    conducts its support activities at the Academy. In this paragraph, 
    the term `support services' includes utilities, office furnishings 
    and equipment, communications services, records staging and 
    archiving, audio and video support, and security systems in 
    conjunction with the leasing or licensing of property. Any such 
    support services may only be provided without any liability of the 
    United States to the corporation.
    ``(g) Contracts and Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary of the 
Air Force may enter into contracts and cooperative agreements with the 
corporation for the purpose of supporting the athletic programs of the 
Academy. Notwithstanding section 2304(k) of this title, the Secretary 
may enter such contracts or cooperative agreements on a sole source 
basis pursuant to section 2304(c)(5) of this title. Notwithstanding 
chapter 63 of title 31, a cooperative agreement under this section may 
be used to acquire property, services, or travel for the direct benefit 
or use of the athletic programs of the Academy.
    ``(h) Trademarks and Service Marks.--
        ``(1) Licensing, marketing, and sponsorship agreements.--An 
    agreement under subsection (g) may, consistent with section 2260 of 
    this title (other than subsection (d) of such section), authorize 
    the corporation to enter into licensing, marketing, and sponsorship 
    agreements relating to trademarks and service marks identifying the 
    Academy, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Air Force.
        ``(2) Limitations.--No licensing, marketing, or sponsorship 
    agreement may be entered into under paragraph (1) if--
            ``(A) such agreement would reflect unfavorably on the 
        ability of the Department of the Air Force, any of its 
        employees, or any member of the armed forces to carry out any 
        responsibility or duty in a fair and objective manner; or
            ``(B) the Secretary determines that the use of the 
        trademark or service mark would compromise the integrity or 
        appearance of integrity of any program of the Department of the 
        Air Force, or any individual involved in such a program.
    ``(i) Retention and Use of Funds.--Any funds received under this 
section may be retained for use in support of the athletic programs of 
the Academy and shall remain available until expended.''.
    SEC. 555. PILOT PROGRAM TO ASSIST MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES IN 
      OBTAINING POST-SERVICE EMPLOYMENT.
    (a) Program Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense may conduct the 
program described in subsection (c) to enhance the efforts of the 
Department of Defense to provide job placement assistance and related 
employment services to eligible members of the Armed Forces described 
in subsection (b) for the purposes of--
        (1) assisting such members in obtaining post-service 
    employment; and
        (2) reducing the amount of ``Unemployment Compensation for Ex-
    Servicemembers'' that the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
    the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating pays into the 
    Unemployment Trust Fund.
    (b) Eligible Members.--Employment services provided under the 
program are limited to members of the Armed Forces, including members 
of the reserve components, who are being separated from the Armed 
Forces or released from active duty.
    (c) Evaluation of Use of Civilian Employment Staffing Agencies.--
        (1) Program described.--The Secretary of Defense may execute a 
    program to evaluate the feasibility and cost-effectiveness of 
    utilizing the services of civilian employment staffing agencies to 
    assist eligible members of the Armed Forces in obtaining post-
    service employment.
        (2) Program management.--To manage the program authorized by 
    this subsection, the Secretary of Defense may select a civilian 
    organization (in this section referred to as the ``program 
    manager'') whose principal members have experience--
            (A) administering pay-for-performance programs; and
            (B) within the employment staffing industry.
        (3) Exclusion.--The program manager may not be a staffing 
    agency.
    (d) Eligible Civilian Employment Staffing Agencies.--In 
consultation with the program manager if utilized under subsection 
(c)(2), the Secretary of Defense shall establish the eligibility 
requirements to be used for the selection of civilian employment 
staffing agencies to participate in the program. In establishing the 
eligibility requirements for the selection of the civilian employment 
staffing agencies, the Secretary of Defense shall also take into 
account civilian employment staffing agencies that are willing to work 
and consult with State and county Veterans Affairs offices and State 
National Guard offices, when appropriate.
    (e) Payment of Staffing Agency Fees.--To encourage employers to 
employ an eligible member of the Armed Forces under the program if 
executed under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall pay a 
participating civilian employment staffing agency a portion of its 
agency fee (not to exceed 50 percent above the member's hourly wage). 
Payment of the agency fee will only be made after the member has been 
employed and paid by the private sector and the hours worked have been 
verified by the Secretary. The staffing agency shall be paid on a 
weekly basis only for hours the member worked, but not to exceed a 
total of 800 hours.
    (f) Oversight Requirements.--In conducting the program, the 
Secretary of Defense shall establish--
        (1) program monitoring standards; and
        (2) reporting requirements, including the hourly wage for each 
    eligible member of the Armed Forces obtaining employment under the 
    program, the numbers of hours worked during the month, and the 
    number of members who remained employed with the same employer 
    after completing the first 800 hours of employment.
    (g) Source and Limitation on Program Obligations.--Of the amounts 
authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Defense for operation 
and maintenance for each fiscal year during which the program under 
this section is authorized, not more than $35,000,000 may be used to 
carry out the program.
    (h) Reporting Requirements.--
        (1) Report required.--If the Secretary of Defense executes the 
    program under this section, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a report describing the 
    results of the program, particularly whether the program achieved 
    the purposes specified in subsection (a). The report shall be 
    submitted not later than January 15, 2019.
        (2) Comparison with other programs.--The report shall include a 
    comparison of the results of the program conducted under this 
    section and the results of other employment assistant programs 
    utilized by the Department of Defense. The comparison shall include 
    the number of members of the Armed Forces obtaining employment 
    through each program and the cost to the Department per member.
        (3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
    section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means 
    the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
    Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, 
    and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
    Senate.
    (i) Duration of Authority.--The authority of the Secretary of 
Defense to carry out programs under this section expires on September 
30, 2018.
    SEC. 556. PLAN FOR EDUCATION OF MEMBERS OF ARMED FORCES ON CYBER 
      MATTERS.
    (a) Plan Required.--Not later than 360 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in cooperation with 
the Secretaries of the military departments, shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a plan for the education of officers and enlisted 
members of the Armed Forces relating to cyber security and cyber 
activities of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The plan submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) A framework for provision of basic cyber education for all 
    members of the Armed Forces.
        (2) A framework for undergraduate and postgraduate education, 
    joint professional military education, and strategic war gaming for 
    cyber strategic and operational leadership.
        (3) Definitions of required positions, including military 
    occupational specialties and rating specialties for each military 
    department, along with the corresponding level of cyber training, 
    education, qualifications, or certifications required for each 
    specialty.
    SEC. 557. ENHANCEMENT OF INFORMATION PROVIDED TO MEMBERS OF THE 
      ARMED FORCES AND VETERANS REGARDING USE OF POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL 
      ASSISTANCE AND FEDERAL FINANCIAL AID THROUGH TRANSITION 
      ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
    (a) Additional Information Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall enhance the 
    higher education component of the Transition Assistance Program 
    (TAP) of the Department of Defense by providing additional 
    information that is more complete and accurate than the information 
    provided as of the day before the date of the enactment of this Act 
    to individuals who apply for educational assistance under chapter 
    30 or 33 of title 38, United States Code, to pursue a program of 
    education at an institution of higher learning.
        (2) Elements.--The additional information required by paragraph 
    (1) shall include the following:
            (A) Information provided by the Secretary of Education that 
        is publically available and addresses--
                (i) to the extent practicable, differences between 
            types of institutions of higher learning in such matters as 
            tuition and fees, admission requirements, accreditation, 
            transferability of credits, credit for qualifying military 
            training, time required to complete a degree, and retention 
            and job placement rates; and
                (ii) how Federal educational assistance provided under 
            title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
            1070 et seq.) may be used in conjunction with educational 
            assistance provided under chapters 30 and 33 of title 38, 
            United States Code.
            (B) Information about the Postsecondary Education Complaint 
        System of the Department of Defense, the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs, the Department of Education, and the Consumer 
        Financial Protection Bureau.
            (C) Information about the GI Bill Comparison Tool of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs.
            (D) Information about each of the Principles of Excellence 
        established by the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs, and the Secretary of Education pursuant to 
        Executive Order 13607 of April 27, 2012 (77 Fed. Reg. 25861), 
        including how to recognize whether an institution of higher 
        learning may be violating any of such principles.
            (E) Information to enable individuals described in 
        paragraph (1) to develop a post-secondary education plan 
        appropriate and compatible with their educational goals.
            (F) Such other information as the Secretary of Education 
        considers appropriate.
        (3) Consultation.--In carrying out this subsection, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall consult with the Secretary of Veterans 
    Affairs, the Secretary of Education, and the Director of the 
    Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
    (b) Availability of Higher Education Component Online.--Not later 
than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the higher education component 
of the Transition Assistance Program is available to members of the 
Armed Forces on an Internet website of the Department of Defense so 
that members have an option to complete such component electronically 
and remotely.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``institution of higher learning'' has the meaning 
    given such term in section 3452 of title 38, United States Code.
        (2) The term ``types of institutions of higher learning'' means 
    the following:
            (A) An educational institution described in section 101(a) 
        of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)).
            (B) An educational institution described in subsection (b) 
        or (c) of section 102 of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1002).
    SEC. 558. PROCEDURES FOR PROVISION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION TO STATE 
      VETERANS AGENCIES TO FACILITATE THE TRANSITION OF MEMBERS OF THE 
      ARMED FORCES FROM MILITARY SERVICE TO CIVILIAN LIFE.
    (a) Procedures Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop 
procedures to share the information described in subsection (b) 
regarding members of the Armed Forces who are being separated from the 
Armed Forces with State veterans agencies in electronic data format as 
a means of facilitating the transition of such members from military 
service to civilian life.
    (b) Covered Information.--The information to be shared with State 
veterans agencies regarding a member shall include the following:
        (1) Military service and separation data.
        (2) A personal email address.
        (3) A personal telephone number.
        (4) A mailing address.
    (c) Consent.--The procedures developed pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall require the consent of a member of the Armed Forces before any 
information described in subsection (b) regarding the member is shared 
with a State veterans agency.
    (d) Use of Information.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
the information shared with State veterans agencies in accordance with 
the procedures developed pursuant to subsection (a) is only shared by 
such agencies with county government veterans service offices for such 
purposes as the Secretary shall specify for the administration and 
delivery of benefits.
    (e) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services and Veterans' Affairs of the Senate 
    and the House of Representatives a report on the progress made by 
    the Secretary--
            (A) in developing the procedures required by subsection 
        (a); and
            (B) in sharing information with State veterans agencies as 
        described in such subsection.
        (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A description of the procedures developed to share 
        information with State veterans agencies.
            (B) A description of the sharing activities carried out by 
        the Secretary in accordance with such procedures.
            (C) The number of members of the Armed Force who gave their 
        consent for the sharing of information with State veterans 
        agencies.
            (D) Such recommendations as the Secretary may have for 
        legislative or administrative action to improve the sharing of 
        information as described in subsection (a).

Subtitle F--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

    SEC. 561. CONTINUATION OF AUTHORITY TO ASSIST LOCAL EDUCATIONAL 
      AGENCIES THAT BENEFIT DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
      AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES.
    (a) Assistance to Schools With Significant Numbers of Military 
Dependent Students.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2015 by section 301 and available for operation and 
maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding 
table in section 4301, $25,000,000 shall be available only for the 
purpose of providing assistance to local educational agencies under 
subsection (a) of section 572 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 20 U.S.C. 7703b).
    (b) Local Educational Agency Defined.--In this section, the term 
``local educational agency'' has the meaning given that term in section 
8013(9) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 7713(9)).
    SEC. 562. IMPACT AID FOR CHILDREN WITH SEVERE DISABILITIES.
    Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 
pursuant to section 301 and available for operation and maintenance for 
Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding table in section 
4301, $5,000,000 shall be available for payments under section 363 of 
the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-398; 114 Stat. 1654A-77; 20 
U.S.C. 7703a).
    SEC. 563. AMENDMENTS TO THE IMPACT AID IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 2012.
    Section 563(c) of National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1748; 20 U.S.C. 6301 note) is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by inserting ``(other than the amendment made by 
        paragraph (3)(A) of such subsection)'' after ``subsection 
        (b)''; and
            (B) by striking ``2-year'' and inserting ``5-year''; and
        (2) in paragraph (4)--
            (A) by inserting ``(other than the amendment made by 
        paragraph (3)(A) of such subsection)'' after ``subsection 
        (b)'';
            (B) by striking ``2-year'' and inserting ``5-year''; and
            (C) by inserting ``(other than the amendment made by 
        paragraph (3)(A) of such subsection)'' after ``made by such 
        subsection''.
    SEC. 564. AUTHORITY TO EMPLOY NON-UNITED STATES CITIZENS AS 
      TEACHERS IN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OVERSEAS DEPENDENTS' SCHOOL 
      SYSTEM.
    Section 2(2)(A) of the Defense Department Overseas Teachers Pay and 
Personnel Practices Act (20 U.S.C. 901(2)(A)) is amended by inserting 
before the comma at the end the following: ``or, in the case of a 
teaching position that involves instruction in the host-nation 
language, a local national when a citizen of the United States is not 
reasonably available to provide such instruction''.
    SEC. 565. INCLUSION OF DOMESTIC DEPENDENT ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY 
      SCHOOLS AMONG FUNCTIONS OF ADVISORY COUNCIL ON DEPENDENTS' 
      EDUCATION.
    (a) Expansion of Functions.--Subsection (c) of section 1411 of the 
Defense Dependents' Education Act of 1978 (20 U.S.C. 929) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, and of the domestic 
    dependent elementary and secondary school system established under 
    section 2164 of title 10, United States Code,'' after ``of the 
    defense dependents' education system''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``and in the domestic 
    dependent elementary and secondary school system'' before the comma 
    at the end.
    (b) Membership of Council.--Subsection (a)(1)(B) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) by inserting ``and the domestic dependent elementary and 
    secondary schools established under section 2164 of title 10, 
    United States Code'' after ``the defense dependents' education 
    system''; and
        (2) by inserting ``either'' before ``such system''.
    SEC. 566. PROTECTION OF CHILD CUSTODY ARRANGEMENTS FOR PARENTS WHO 
      ARE MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Child Custody Protection.--Title II of the Servicemembers Civil 
Relief Act (50 U.S.C. App. 521 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:
    ``SEC. 208. CHILD CUSTODY PROTECTION.
    ``(a) Duration of Temporary Custody Order Based on Certain 
Deployments.--If a court renders a temporary order for custodial 
responsibility for a child based solely on a deployment or anticipated 
deployment of a parent who is a servicemember, the court shall require 
that the temporary order shall expire not later than the period 
justified by the deployment of the servicemember.
    ``(b) Limitation on Consideration of Member's Deployment in 
Determination of Child's Best Interest.--If a motion or a petition is 
filed seeking a permanent order to modify the custody of the child of a 
servicemember, no court may consider the absence of the servicemember 
by reason of deployment, or the possibility of deployment, as the sole 
factor in determining the best interest of the child.
    ``(c) No Federal Jurisdiction or Right of Action or Removal.--
Nothing in this section shall create a Federal right of action or 
otherwise give rise to Federal jurisdiction or create a right of 
removal.
    ``(d) Preemption.--In any case where State law applicable to a 
child custody proceeding involving a temporary order as contemplated in 
this section provides a higher standard of protection to the rights of 
the parent who is a deploying servicemember than the rights provided 
under this section with respect to such temporary order, the 
appropriate court shall apply the higher State standard.
    ``(e) Deployment Defined.--In this section, the term `deployment' 
means the movement or mobilization of a servicemember to a location for 
a period of longer than 60 days and not longer than 540 days pursuant 
to temporary or permanent official orders--
        ``(1) that are designated as unaccompanied;
        ``(2) for which dependent travel is not authorized; or
        ``(3) that otherwise do not permit the movement of family 
    members to that location.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
such Act is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to title 
II the following new item:

``Sec. 208. Child custody protection.''.
    SEC. 567. IMPROVED CONSISTENCY IN DATA COLLECTION AND REPORTING IN 
      ARMED FORCES SUICIDE PREVENTION EFFORTS.
    (a) Policy for Standard Suicide Data Collection, Reporting, and 
Assessment.--
        (1) Policy required.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
    a policy for the development of a standard method for collecting, 
    reporting, and assessing information regarding--
            (A) any suicide or attempted suicide involving a member of 
        the Armed Forces, including reserve components thereof; and
            (B) any death that is reported as a suicide involving a 
        dependent of a member of the Armed Forces.
        (2) Purpose of policy.--The purpose of the policy required by 
    this subsection is to improve the consistency and comprehensiveness 
    of--
            (A) the suicide prevention policy developed pursuant to 
        section 582 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note); and
            (B) the suicide prevention and resilience program for the 
        National Guard and Reserves established pursuant to section 
        10219 of title 10, United States Code.
        (3) Consultation.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop the 
    policy required by this subsection in consultation with the 
    Secretaries of the military departments and the Chief of the 
    National Guard Bureau.
    (b) Submission and Implementation of Policy.--
        (1) Submission.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit the 
    policy developed under subsection (a) to the Committees on Armed 
    Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
        (2) Implementation.--The Secretaries of the military 
    departments shall implement the policy developed under subsection 
    (a) not later than 180 days after the date of the submittal of the 
    policy under paragraph (1).
    (c) Dependent Defined.--In this section, the term ``dependent'', 
with respect to a member of the Armed Forces, means a person described 
in section 1072(2) of title 10, United States Code, except that, in the 
case of a parent or parent-in-law of the member, the income 
requirements of subparagraph (E) of such section do not apply.
    SEC. 568. IMPROVED DATA COLLECTION RELATED TO EFFORTS TO REDUCE 
      UNDEREMPLOYMENT OF SPOUSES OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND 
      CLOSE THE WAGE GAP BETWEEN MILITARY SPOUSES AND THEIR CIVILIAN 
      COUNTERPARTS.
    (a) Data Collection Efforts.--In addition to monitoring the number 
of spouses of members of the Armed Forces who obtain employment through 
military spouse employment programs, the Secretary of Defense shall 
collect data to evaluate the effectiveness of military spouse 
employment programs--
        (1) in addressing the underemployment of military spouses;
        (2) in matching military spouses' education and experience to 
    available employment positions; and
        (3) in closing the wage gap between military spouses and their 
    civilian counterparts.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report evaluating the progress of 
military spouse employment programs--
        (1) in reducing military spouse unemployment and 
    underemployment; and
        (2) in reducing the wage gap between military spouses and their 
    civilian counterparts.
    (c) Military Spouse Employment Programs Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``military spouse employment programs'' means the Military 
Spouse Employment Partnership (MSEP).

                   Subtitle G--Decorations and Awards

    SEC. 571. MEDALS FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND CIVILIAN 
      EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WHO WERE KILLED OR WOUNDED 
      IN AN ATTACK BY A FOREIGN TERRORIST ORGANIZATION.
    (a) Purple Heart.--
        (1) Award.--
            (A) In general.--Chapter 57 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended by inserting after section 1129 the following 
        new section:
``Sec. 1129a. Purple Heart: members killed or wounded in attacks by 
     foreign terrorist organizations
    ``(a) In General.--For purposes of the award of the Purple Heart, 
the Secretary concerned shall treat a member of the armed forces 
described in subsection (b) in the same manner as a member who is 
killed or wounded as a result of an international terrorist attack 
against the United States.
    ``(b) Covered Members.--(1) A member described in this subsection 
is a member on active duty who was killed or wounded in an attack by a 
foreign terrorist organization in circumstances where the death or 
wound is the result of an attack targeted on the member due to such 
member's status as a member of the armed forces, unless the death or 
wound is the result of willful misconduct of the member.
    ``(2) For purposes of this section, an attack by an individual or 
entity shall be considered to be an attack by a foreign terrorist 
organization if--
        ``(A) the individual or entity was in communication with the 
    foreign terrorist organization before the attack; and
        ``(B) the attack was inspired or motivated by the foreign 
    terrorist organization.
    ``(c) Foreign Terrorist Organization Defined.--In this section, the 
term `foreign terrorist organization' means an entity designated as a 
foreign terrorist organization by the Secretary of State pursuant to 
section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).''.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 57 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 1129 the following new item:

``1129a. Purple Heart: members killed or wounded in attacks by foreign 
          terrorist organizations.''.

        (2) Retroactive effective date and application.--
            (A) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect as of September 11, 2001.
            (B) Review of certain previous incidents.--The Secretary 
        concerned shall undertake a review of each death or wounding of 
        a member of the Armed Forces that occurred between September 
        11, 2001, and the date of the enactment of this Act under 
        circumstances that could qualify as being the result of an 
        attack described in section 1129a of title 10, United States 
        Code (as added by paragraph (1)), to determine whether the 
        death or wounding qualifies as a death or wounding resulting 
        from an attack by a foreign terrorist organization for purposes 
        of the award of the Purple Heart pursuant to such section (as 
        so added).
            (C) Actions following review.--If the death or wounding of 
        a member of the Armed Forces reviewed under subparagraph (B) is 
        determined to qualify as a death or wounding resulting from an 
        attack by a foreign terrorist organization as described in 
        section 1129a of title 10, United States Code (as so added), 
        the Secretary concerned shall take appropriate action under 
        such section to award the Purple Heart to the member.
            (D) Secretary concerned defined.--In this paragraph, the 
        term ``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 101(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Secretary of Defense Medal for the Defense of Freedom.--
        (1) Review of the november 5, 2009, attack at fort hood, 
    texas.--If the Secretary concerned determines, after a review under 
    subsection (a)(2)(B) regarding the attack that occurred at Fort 
    Hood, Texas, on November 5, 2009, that the death or wounding of any 
    member of the Armed Forces in that attack qualified as a death or 
    wounding resulting from an attack by a foreign terrorist 
    organization as described in section 1129a of title 10, United 
    States Code (as added by subsection (a)), the Secretary of Defense 
    shall make a determination as to whether the death or wounding of 
    any civilian employee of the Department of Defense or civilian 
    contractor in the same attack meets the eligibility criteria for 
    the award of the Secretary of Defense Medal for the Defense of 
    Freedom.
        (2) Award.--If the Secretary of Defense determines under 
    paragraph (1) that the death or wounding of any civilian employee 
    of the Department of Defense or civilian contractor in the attack 
    that occurred at Fort Hood, Texas, on November 5, 2009, meets the 
    eligibility criteria for the award of the Secretary of Defense 
    Medal for the Defense of Freedom, the Secretary shall take 
    appropriate action to award the Secretary of Defense Medal for the 
    Defense of Freedom to the employee or contractor.
    SEC. 572. AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF THE MEDAL OF HONOR TO MEMBERS 
      OF THE ARMED FORCES FOR ACTS OF VALOR DURING WORLD WAR I.
    (a) William Shemin.--
        (1) Waiver of time limitations.--Notwithstanding the time 
    limitations specified in section 3744 of title 10, United States 
    Code, or any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of 
    certain medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the 
    President may award the Medal of Honor under section 3741 of such 
    title to William Shemin for the acts of valor during World War I 
    described in paragraph (1).
        (2) Acts of valor described.--The acts of valor referred to in 
    paragraph (1) are the actions of William Shemin while serving as a 
    Rifleman with G Company, 2d Battalion, 47th Infantry Regiment, 4th 
    Division, American Expeditionary Forces, in connection with combat 
    operations against an armed enemy on the Vesle River, near 
    Bazoches, France, from August 7 to August 9, 1918, during World War 
    I for which he was originally awarded the Distinguished Service 
    Cross.
    (b) Henry Johnson.--
        (1) Waiver of time limitations.--Notwithstanding the time 
    limitations specified in section 3744 of title 10, United States 
    Code, or any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of 
    certain medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the 
    President may award the Medal of Honor under section 3741 of such 
    title to Henry Johnson for the acts of valor during World War I 
    described in paragraph (2).
        (2) Acts of valor described.--The acts of valor referred to in 
    paragraph (2) are the actions of Henry Johnson while serving as a 
    member of Company C, 369th Infantry Regiment, 93rd Division, 
    American Expeditionary Forces, during combat operations against the 
    enemy on the front lines of the Western Front in France on May 15, 
    1918, during World War I for which he was previously awarded the 
    Distinguished Service Cross.

            Subtitle H--Miscellaneous Reporting Requirements

    SEC. 581. REVIEW AND REPORT ON MILITARY PROGRAMS AND CONTROLS 
      REGARDING PROFESSIONALISM.
    (a) Review Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
preliminary review of the effectiveness of current programs and 
controls of the Department of Defense and the military departments 
regarding the professionalism of members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Submission of Report.--Not later than September 1, 2015, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report containing 
recommendations to strengthen professionalism programs in the 
Department of Defense.
    SEC. 582. REVIEW AND REPORT ON PREVENTION OF SUICIDE AMONG MEMBERS 
      OF UNITED STATES SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES.
    (a) Review Required.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness and the 
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity 
Conflict, shall conduct a review of Department of Defense efforts 
regarding the prevention of suicide among members of United States 
Special Operations Forces and their dependents.
    (b) Consultation.--In conducting the review under subsection (a), 
the Secretary of Defense shall consult with, and consider the 
recommendations of, the Office of Suicide Prevention, the Secretaries 
of the military departments, the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict, and the United States 
Special Operations Command regarding the feasibility of implementing, 
for members of United States Special Operations Forces and their 
dependents, particular elements of the Department of Defense suicide 
prevention policy developed pursuant to section 533 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 
U.S.C. 1071 note) and section 582 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239. 10 U.S.C. 1071 note).
    (c) Elements of Review.--The review conducted under subsection (a) 
shall specifically include an assessment of each of the following:
        (1) Current Armed Forces and United States Special Operations 
    Command policy guidelines on the prevention of suicide among 
    members of United States Special Operations Forces and their 
    dependents.
        (2) Current and directed Armed Forces and United States Special 
    Operations Command suicide prevention programs and activities for 
    members of United States Special Operations Forces and their 
    dependents, including programs provided by the Defense Health 
    Program and the Office of Suicide Prevention and programs 
    supporting family members.
        (3) Current Armed Forces and United States Special Operations 
    Command strategies to reduce suicides among members of United 
    States Special Operations Forces and their dependents, including 
    the cost of such strategies across the future-years defense 
    program.
        (4) Current Armed Forces and United States Special Operations 
    Command standards of care for suicide prevention among members of 
    United States Special Operations Forces and their dependents, 
    including training standards for behavioral health care providers 
    to ensure that such providers receive training on clinical best 
    practices and evidence-based treatments as information on such 
    practices and treatments becomes available.
        (5) The integration of mental health screenings and suicide 
    risk and prevention efforts for members of United States Special 
    Operations Forces and their dependents into the delivery of primary 
    care for such members and dependents.
        (6) The standards for responding to attempted or completed 
    suicides among members of United States Special Operations Forces 
    and their dependents, including guidance and training to assist 
    commanders in addressing incidents of attempted or completed 
    suicide within their units.
        (7) The standards regarding data collection for individual 
    members of United States Special Operations Forces and their 
    dependents, including related factors such as domestic violence and 
    child abuse.
        (8) The means to ensure the protection of privacy of members of 
    United States Special Operations Forces and their dependents who 
    seek or receive treatment related to suicide prevention.
        (9) The potential need to differentiate members of United 
    States Special Operations Forces and their dependents from members 
    of conventional forces and their dependents in the development and 
    delivery of the Department of Defense suicide prevention program.
        (10) Such other matters as the Secretary of Defense considers 
    appropriate in connection with the prevention of suicide among 
    members of United States Special Operations Forces and their 
    dependents.
    (d) Submission of Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report containing the results of the review conducted 
under subsection (a).
    SEC. 583. REVIEW AND REPORT ON PROVISION OF JOB PLACEMENT 
      ASSISTANCE AND RELATED EMPLOYMENT SERVICES DIRECTLY TO MEMBERS OF 
      THE RESERVE COMPONENTS.
    (a) Review Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
review of the feasibility of improving the efforts of the Department of 
Defense to provide job placement assistance and related employment 
services directly to members in the National Guard and Reserves. In 
evaluating potential job placement programs, the Secretary shall 
consider--
        (1) the likely cost of the program;
        (2) the impact of the program on increasing employment 
    opportunities and results for members of the reserve components; 
    and
        (3) how a Department program would compare to other 
    unemployment or underemployment programs of the Federal Government 
    already available to members of the reserve components.
    (b) Submission of Report.--Not later than April 1, 2015, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report containing the 
results of the review.
    SEC. 584. REPORT ON FOREIGN LANGUAGE, REGIONAL EXPERTISE, AND 
      CULTURE CONSIDERATIONS IN OVERSEAS MILITARY OPERATIONS.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report concerning--
        (1) foreign language, regional expertise, and culture 
    considerations, including gender-based considerations in the 
    context of foreign cultural norms; and
        (2) how such considerations factor into the planning and 
    execution of overseas operations and missions of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Consultation.--In preparing the report under subsection (a), 
the Secretary of Defense shall consult with, and consider the 
recommendations of, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
    (c) Elements of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following elements:
        (1) An assessment of how foreign language, regional expertise, 
    and culture considerations, including gender-based considerations 
    in the context of foreign cultural norms, affect overseas 
    operations and missions of the Armed Forces, including lessons 
    learned as a result of members of the Armed Forces engaging with 
    female civilian populations in Iraq and Afghanistan and during 
    other overseas operations and missions.
        (2) An identification of how the Department of Defense 
    addresses such considerations in its planning and execution of 
    overseas operations and missions, including how it educates 
    military commanders on foreign language, regional expertise, and 
    culture considerations, including gender-based considerations in 
    the context of foreign cultural norms.
        (3) An evaluation of the adequacy of current programs and the 
    need for additional or modified programs to train members of the 
    Armed Forces regarding such considerations, including proposed 
    changes in the length of training and curriculum.
        (4) An evaluation of the need for advisors within the military 
    commands and Armed Forces, including billet descriptions for such 
    advisors, where to assign them within the military command and 
    Armed Forces, and the desirability and feasibility of assigning 
    such advisors in combatant command and joint task force staffs.
        (5) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense may determine to 
    be appropriate.
    (d) Form of Report.--The report prepared under subsection (a) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    SEC. 585. DEADLINE FOR SUBMISSION OF REPORT CONTAINING RESULTS OF 
      REVIEW OF OFFICE OF DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 
      ROLE IN SEXUAL HARASSMENT CASES.
    Not later than April 1, 2015, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report containing the results of the review conducted 
pursuant to section 1735 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 976).
    SEC. 586. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF RISK AND RESILIENCY OF UNITED 
      STATES SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE 
      PRESERVATION OF THE FORCE AND FAMILIES AND HUMAN PERFORMANCE 
      PROGRAMS.
    (a) Assessment Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide 
for an independent assessment of--
        (1) the mental, behavioral, and psychological health challenges 
    facing members of the Armed Forces assigned to special operations 
    forces; and
        (2) the effectiveness of the Preservation of the Force and 
    Families Program and the Human Performance Program of the United 
    States Special Operations Command in addressing such challenges.
    (b) Entity Conducting Assessment.--To conduct the assessment 
required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall select a 
federally funded research and development center or another appropriate 
independent entity.
    (c) Assessment Elements.--The assessment required by subsection (a) 
shall specifically include the following:
        (1) The factors contributing to the mental, behavioral, and 
    psychological health challenges facing members of the Armed Forces 
    assigned to special operations forces.
        (2) The effectiveness of the Preservation of the Force and 
    Families Program in addressing the mental, behavioral, and 
    psychological health of members of the special operations forces, 
    including the extent to which measurements of effectiveness are 
    being utilized to assess progress--
            (A) in reducing suicide and other mental, behavioral, and 
        psychological risks; and
            (B) in increasing the resiliency of such members.
        (3) The effectiveness of the Human Performance Program in 
    improving the mental, behavioral, and psychological health of 
    members of the special operations forces, including the extent to 
    which measurements of effectiveness are being utilized to assess 
    progress--
            (A) in reducing suicide and other mental, behavioral and 
        psychological risks; and
            (B) in increasing the resiliency of such members.
        (4) Such other matters as the Secretary of Defense considers 
    appropriate.
    (d) Submission of Report.--Not later than one year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a report containing the results of 
the assessment conducted under subsection (a).
    SEC. 587. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON HAZING IN THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the designated congressional committees a report on the 
policies to prevent hazing, and systems initiated to track incidents of 
hazing, in each of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Elements of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
        (1) An evaluation of the definition of hazing by the Armed 
    Forces.
        (2) A description of the criteria used, and the methods 
    implemented, in the systems to track incidents of hazing in the 
    Armed Forces.
        (3) The number of alleged and substantiated incidents of 
    hazing, as reflected in the tracking systems, over the last two 
    years for each Armed Force, the nature of these incidents, and 
    actions taken to address such incidents through non-judicial and 
    judicial action.
        (4) An assessment of the following:
            (A) The prevalence of hazing in each Armed Force.
            (B) The policies in place and the training on hazing 
        provided to members throughout the course of their careers for 
        each Armed Force.
            (C) The available outlets through which victims or 
        witnesses of hazing can report hazing both within and outside 
        their chain of command, and whether or not anonymous reporting 
        is permitted.
            (D) The actions taken to mitigate hazing incidents in each 
        Armed Force.
            (E) The effectiveness of the training and policies in place 
        regarding hazing.
        (5) An evaluation of the additional actions, if any, the 
    Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security propose 
    to take to further address hazing in the Armed Forces.
        (6) Such recommendations as the Comptroller General considers 
    appropriate for improving hazing prevention programs, policies, and 
    other actions taken to address hazing within the Armed Forces.
    (c) Designated Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``designated congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Commerce, Science and Transportation of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.
    SEC. 588. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON IMPACT OF CERTAIN MENTAL 
      AND PHYSICAL TRAUMA ON DISCHARGES FROM MILITARY SERVICE FOR 
      MISCONDUCT.
    (a) Report Required.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report on the impact of mental and physical 
trauma relating to Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), Traumatic 
Brain Injury (TBI), behavioral health matters not related to Post 
Traumatic Stress Disorder, and other neurological combat traumas (in 
this section referred to as ``covered traumas'') on the discharge of 
members of the Armed Forces from the Armed Forces for misconduct.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) An assessment of the extent to which the Armed Forces have 
    in place processes for the consideration of the impact of mental 
    and physical trauma relating to covered traumas on members of the 
    Armed Forces who are being considered for discharge from the Armed 
    Forces for misconduct, including the compliance of the Armed Forces 
    with such processes and mechanisms in the Department of Defense for 
    ensuring the compliance of the Armed Forces with such processes.
        (2) An assessment of the extent to which the Armed Forces 
    provide members of the Armed Forces, including commanding officers, 
    junior officers, and noncommissioned officers, training on the 
    symptoms of covered traumas and the identification of the presence 
    of such conditions in members of the Armed Forces.
        (3) An assessment of the extent to which members of the Armed 
    Forces who receive treatment for a covered trauma before discharge 
    from the Armed Forces are later discharged from the Armed Forces 
    for misconduct.
        (4) An identification of the number of members of the Armed 
    Forces discharged as described in paragraph (3) who are ineligible 
    for benefits from the Department of Veterans Affairs based on 
    characterization of discharge.
        (5) An assessment of the extent to which members of the Armed 
    Forces who accept a discharge from the Armed Forces for misconduct 
    in lieu of trial by court-martial are counseled on the potential 
    for ineligibility for benefits from the Department of Veterans 
    Affairs as a result of such discharge before acceptance of such 
    discharge.

                       Subtitle I--Other Matters

    SEC. 591. INSPECTION OF OUTPATIENT RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES OCCUPIED 
      BY RECOVERING SERVICE MEMBERS.
    Section 1662(a) of the Wounded Warrior Act (title XVI of Public Law 
110-181; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note) is amended by striking ``inspected on a 
semiannual basis for the first two years after the enactment of this 
Act and annually thereafter'' and inserting ``inspected at least once 
every two years''.
    SEC. 592. DESIGNATION OF VOTER ASSISTANCE OFFICES.
    (a) Designation Authority.--Subsection (a) of section 1566a of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2010 and under'' and inserting ``Under''; and
        (2) by inserting after ``their jurisdiction'' the following: 
    ``, or at such installations as the Secretary of the military 
    department concerned shall determine are best located to provide 
    access to voter assistance services for all covered individuals in 
    a particular location,''.
    (b) Report on Closure of Voter Assistance Office.--Subsection (f) 
of such section is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The Secretary of Defense''; 
    and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary of a military department shall provide the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives with notice of any decision by the Secretary to close a 
voter assistance office that was designated on an installation before 
the date of the enactment of this paragraph. The notice shall include 
the rational for the closure, the timing of the closure, the number of 
covered individuals supported by the office, and the plan for providing 
the assistance available under subsection (a) to covered individuals 
after the closure of the office.''.
    SEC. 593. REPEAL OF ELECTRONIC VOTING DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.
    Section 1604 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2002 (Public Law 107-107; 52 U.S.C. 20301 note) is repealed.
    SEC. 594. AUTHORITY FOR REMOVAL FROM NATIONAL CEMETERIES OF REMAINS 
      OF CERTAIN DECEASED MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHO HAVE NO KNOWN 
      NEXT OF KIN.
    (a) Removal Authority.--Section 1488 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Removal of Remains of Certain Members With No Known Next of 
Kin.--(1) The Secretary of the Army may authorize the removal of the 
remains of a covered member of the armed forces who is buried in an 
Army National Military Cemetery from the Army National Military 
Cemetery for transfer to any other cemetery.
    ``(2) The Secretary of the Army, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, may authorize the removal of the remains 
of a covered member of the armed forces who is buried in a cemetery of 
the National Cemetery System from that cemetery for transfer to any 
Army National Military Cemetery.
    ``(3) A removal of remains may not be authorized under this 
subsection unless the individual seeking the removal of the remains--
        ``(A) demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary of the 
    Army that the member of the armed forces concerned has no known 
    next of kin or other person who is interested in maintaining the 
    place of burial; and
        ``(B) undertakes full responsibility for all expenses of the 
    removal of the remains and the reburial of the remains at another 
    cemetery as authorized by this subsection.
    ``(4) In this subsection:
        ``(A) The term `Army National Military Cemetery' means a 
    cemetery specified in section 4721(b) of this title.
        ``(B) The term `covered member of the armed forces' means a 
    member of the armed forces who--
            ``(i) has been awarded the Medal of Honor; and
            ``(ii) has no known next of kin.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) by inserting before ``If a cemetery'' the following:
    ``(a) Removal Upon Discontinuance of Installation Cemetery.--'';
        (2) by striking ``his jurisdiction'' and inserting ``the 
    jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned''; and
        (3) by inserting before ``With respect to'' the following:
    ``(b) Removal From Temporary Interment or Abandoned Grave or 
Cemetery.--''.
    SEC. 595. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING LEAVING NO MEMBER OF THE 
      ARMED FORCES UNACCOUNTED FOR DURING THE DRAWDOWN OF UNITED STATES 
      FORCES IN AFGHANISTAN.
    It is the sense of Congress that the United States--
        (1) should undertake every reasonable effort--
            (A) to search for and repatriate members of the Armed 
        Forces who are missing; and
            (B) to repatriate members of the Armed Forces who are 
        captured;
        (2) has a responsibility to keep the promises made to members 
    of the Armed Forces who risk their lives on a daily basis on behalf 
    of the people of the United States; and
        (3) while continuing to transition leadership roles in combat 
    operations in Afghanistan to the people of Afghanistan, must 
    continue to fulfill the promise of the United States Soldier's 
    Creed and the Warrior Ethos, which states that ``I will never leave 
    a fallen comrade'', with respect to any member of the Armed Forces 
    who is in a missing status or captured as a result of service in 
    Afghanistan now or in the future.

          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. No fiscal year 2015 increase in basic pay for general and flag 
          officers.
Sec. 602. Extension of authority to provide temporary increase in rates 
          of basic allowance for housing under certain circumstances.
Sec. 603. Inclusion of Chief of the National Guard Bureau and Senior 
          Enlisted Advisor to the Chief of the National Guard Bureau 
          among senior members of the Armed Forces for purposes of pay 
          and allowances.
Sec. 604. Modification of computation of basic allowance for housing 
          inside the United States.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
          authorities for reserve forces.
Sec. 612. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
          authorities for health care professionals.
Sec. 613. One-year extension of special pay and bonus authorities for 
          nuclear officers.
Sec. 614. One-year extension of authorities relating to title 37 
          consolidated special pay, incentive pay, and bonus 
          authorities.
Sec. 615. One-year extension of authorities relating to payment of other 
          title 37 bonuses and special pays.

     Subtitle C--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

Sec. 621. Earlier determination of dependent status with respect to 
          transitional compensation for dependents of certain members 
          separated for dependent abuse.
Sec. 622. Modification of determination of retired pay base for officers 
          retired in general and flag officer grades.
Sec. 623. Inapplicability of reduced annual adjustment of retired pay 
          for members of the Armed Forces under the age of 62 under the 
          Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 who first become members prior 
          to January 1, 2016.
Sec. 624. Survivor Benefit Plan annuities for special needs trusts 
          established for the benefit of dependent children incapable of 
          self-support.
Sec. 625. Modification of per-fiscal year calculation of days of certain 
          active duty or active service to reduce eligibility age for 
          retirement for non-regular service.

Subtitle D--Commissary and Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality Benefits 
                             and Operations

Sec. 631. Procurement of brand-name and other commercial items for 
          resale by commissary stores.
Sec. 632. Authority of nonappropriated fund instrumentalities to enter 
          into contracts with other Federal agencies and 
          instrumentalities to provide and obtain certain goods and 
          services.
Sec. 633. Competitive pricing of legal consumer tobacco products sold in 
          Department of Defense retail stores.
Sec. 634. Review of management, food, and pricing options for defense 
          commissary system.

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

    SEC. 601. NO FISCAL YEAR 2015 INCREASE IN BASIC PAY FOR GENERAL AND 
      FLAG OFFICERS.
    In the case of commissioned officers in the uniformed services in 
pay grades O-7 through O-10--
        (1) section 203(a)(2) of title 37, United States Code, shall be 
    applied for rates of basic pay payable for such officers during 
    calendar year 2015 by using the rate of pay for level II of the 
    Executive Schedule in effect during 2014; and
        (2) the rates of monthly basic pay payable for such officers 
    shall not increase during calendar year 2015.
    SEC. 602. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE TEMPORARY INCREASE IN 
      RATES OF BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.
    Section 403(b)(7)(E) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2014'' and inserting ``December 31, 2015''.
    SEC. 603. INCLUSION OF CHIEF OF THE NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU AND 
      SENIOR ENLISTED ADVISOR TO THE CHIEF OF THE NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU 
      AMONG SENIOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES FOR PURPOSES OF PAY AND 
      ALLOWANCES.
    (a) Basic Pay Rate Equal Treatment of Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau and Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau.--
        (1) Chief of the national guard bureau.--The rate of basic pay 
    for an officer while serving as the Chief of the National Guard 
    Bureau shall be the same as the rate of basic pay for the officers 
    specified in Footnote 2 of the table entitled ``commissioned 
    officers'' in section 601(b) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 108-136; 37 U.S.C. 1009 note), 
    regardless of cumulative years of service computed under section 
    205 of title 37, United States Code.
        (2) Senior enlisted advisor to the chief of the national guard 
    bureau.--
            (A) In general.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 685 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public 
        Law 109-163; 37 U.S.C. 205 note) is amended by inserting ``or 
        as Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chief of the National Guard 
        Bureau'' after ``Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff''.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The heading of such section is 
        amended by inserting ``and for the chief of the national guard 
        bureau'' after ``chairman of the joint chiefs of staff''.
    (b) Pay During Terminal Leave and While Hospitalized.--Section 210 
of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or the senior enlisted 
    advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff or the Chief 
    of the National Guard Bureau'' after ``that armed force'' the first 
    place it appears; and
        (2) in subsection (c), by striking paragraph (6).
    (c) Personal Money Allowance.--Section 414 of title 37, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(5), by striking ``or Commandant of the 
    Coast Guard'' and inserting ``Commandant of the Coast Guard, or 
    Chief of the National Guard Bureau''; and
        (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``or the Senior Enlisted 
    Advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff'' and 
    inserting ``the Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman of the 
    Joint Chiefs of Staff, or the Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chief 
    of the National Guard Bureau''.
    (d) Retired Base Pay.--Section 1406(i) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``Chief of the 
    National Guard Bureau,'' after ``Chiefs of Service,'';
        (2) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by inserting ``as Chief of the National Guard Bureau,'' 
        after ``Chief of Service,''; and
            (B) by inserting ``or the senior enlisted advisor to the 
        Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff or the Chief of the 
        National Guard Bureau'' after ``of an armed force''; and
        (3) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking clause (vi).
    (e) Effective Date.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
shall apply with respect to months of service that begin on or after 
that date.
    SEC. 604. MODIFICATION OF COMPUTATION OF BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR 
      HOUSING INSIDE THE UNITED STATES.
    (a) In General.--Paragraph (3) of section 403(b) of title 37, 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(3)(A) The monthly amount of the basic allowance for housing for 
an area of the United States for a member of a uniformed service shall 
be the amount equal to the difference between--
        ``(i) the amount of the monthly cost of adequate housing in 
    that area, as determined by the Secretary of Defense, for members 
    of the uniformed services serving in the same pay grade and with 
    the same dependency status as the member; and
        ``(ii) the amount equal to a specified percentage (determined 
    under subparagraph (B)) of the national average monthly cost of 
    adequate housing in the United States, as determined by the 
    Secretary, for members of the uniformed services serving in the 
    same pay grade and with the same dependency status as the member.
    ``(B) The percentage to be used for purposes of subparagraph 
(A)(ii) shall be determined by the Secretary of Defense and may not 
exceed one percent.''.
    (b) Special Rule.--Any reduction authorized by paragraph (3) of 
subsection (b) of section 403 of title 37, United States Code, as 
amended by subsection (a), shall not apply with respect to benefits 
paid by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under the laws administered 
by the Secretary, including pursuant to sections 3108 and 3313 of title 
38, United States Code. Such benefits that are determined in accordance 
with such section 403 shall be subject to paragraph (3) of such section 
as such paragraph was in effect on the day before the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

    SEC. 611. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
      AUTHORITIES FOR RESERVE FORCES.
    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2014'' and inserting ``December 31, 2015'':
        (1) Section 308b(g), relating to Selected Reserve reenlistment 
    bonus.
        (2) Section 308c(i), relating to Selected Reserve affiliation 
    or enlistment bonus.
        (3) Section 308d(c), relating to special pay for enlisted 
    members assigned to certain high-priority units.
        (4) Section 308g(f)(2), relating to Ready Reserve enlistment 
    bonus for persons without prior service.
        (5) Section 308h(e), relating to Ready Reserve enlistment and 
    reenlistment bonus for persons with prior service.
        (6) Section 308i(f), relating to Selected Reserve enlistment 
    and reenlistment bonus for persons with prior service.
        (7) Section 478a(e), relating to reimbursement of travel 
    expenses for inactive-duty training outside of normal commuting 
    distance.
        (8) Section 910(g), relating to income replacement payments for 
    reserve component members experiencing extended and frequent 
    mobilization for active duty service.
    SEC. 612. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
      AUTHORITIES FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS.
    (a) Title 10 Authorities.--The following sections of title 10, 
United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 31, 2014'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2015'':
        (1) Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer candidate 
    accession program.
        (2) Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education loans 
    for certain health professionals who serve in the Selected Reserve.
    (b) Title 37 Authorities.--The following sections of title 37, 
United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 31, 2014'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2015'':
        (1) Section 302c-1(f), relating to accession and retention 
    bonuses for psychologists.
        (2) Section 302d(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for 
    registered nurses.
        (3) Section 302e(a)(1), relating to incentive special pay for 
    nurse anesthetists.
        (4) Section 302g(e), relating to special pay for Selected 
    Reserve health professionals in critically short wartime 
    specialties.
        (5) Section 302h(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for dental 
    officers.
        (6) Section 302j(a), relating to accession bonus for pharmacy 
    officers.
        (7) Section 302k(f), relating to accession bonus for medical 
    officers in critically short wartime specialties.
        (8) Section 302l(g), relating to accession bonus for dental 
    specialist officers in critically short wartime specialties.
    SEC. 613. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF SPECIAL PAY AND BONUS AUTHORITIES 
      FOR NUCLEAR OFFICERS.
    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2014'' and inserting ``December 31, 2015'':
        (1) Section 312(f), relating to special pay for nuclear-
    qualified officers extending period of active service.
        (2) Section 312b(c), relating to nuclear career accession 
    bonus.
        (3) Section 312c(d), relating to nuclear career annual 
    incentive bonus.
    SEC. 614. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO TITLE 37 
      CONSOLIDATED SPECIAL PAY, INCENTIVE PAY, AND BONUS AUTHORITIES.
    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2014'' and inserting ``December 31, 2015'':
        (1) Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for 
    enlisted members.
        (2) Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for 
    officers.
        (3) Section 333(i), relating to special bonus and incentive pay 
    authorities for nuclear officers.
        (4) Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive pay 
    and bonus authorities for officers.
        (5) Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive pay 
    authorities for officers in health professions.
        (6) Section 336(g), relating to contracting bonus for cadets 
    and midshipmen enrolled in the Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
    Corps.
        (7) Section 351(h), relating to hazardous duty pay.
        (8) Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special duty 
    pay.
        (9) Section 353(i), relating to skill incentive pay or 
    proficiency bonus.
        (10) Section 355(h), relating to retention incentives for 
    members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to high 
    priority units.
    SEC. 615. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO PAYMENT OF 
      OTHER TITLE 37 BONUSES AND SPECIAL PAYS.
    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2014'' and inserting ``December 31, 2015'':
        (1) Section 301b(a), relating to aviation officer retention 
    bonus.
        (2) Section 307a(g), relating to assignment incentive pay.
        (3) Section 308(g), relating to reenlistment bonus for active 
    members.
        (4) Section 309(e), relating to enlistment bonus.
        (5) Section 316a(g), relating to incentive pay for members of 
    precommissioning programs pursuing foreign language proficiency.
        (6) Section 324(g), relating to accession bonus for new 
    officers in critical skills.
        (7) Section 326(g), relating to incentive bonus for conversion 
    to military occupational specialty to ease personnel shortage.
        (8) Section 327(h), relating to incentive bonus for transfer 
    between branches of the Armed Forces.
        (9) Section 330(f), relating to accession bonus for officer 
    candidates.

     Subtitle C--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

    SEC. 621. EARLIER DETERMINATION OF DEPENDENT STATUS WITH RESPECT TO 
      TRANSITIONAL COMPENSATION FOR DEPENDENTS OF CERTAIN MEMBERS 
      SEPARATED FOR DEPENDENT ABUSE.
    Section 1059(d)(4) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``as of the date on which the individual described in 
subsection (b) is separated from active duty'' and inserting ``as of 
the date on which the separation action is initiated by a commander of 
the individual described in subsection (b)''.
    SEC. 622. MODIFICATION OF DETERMINATION OF RETIRED PAY BASE FOR 
      OFFICERS RETIRED IN GENERAL AND FLAG OFFICER GRADES.
    (a) Reinstatement of Earlier Method of Determination.--Section 
1407a of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1407a. Retired pay base: officers retired in general or flag 
     officer grades
    ``(a) Rates of Basic Pay to Be Used in Determination.--Except as 
otherwise provided in this section, in a case in which the 
determination under section 1406 or 1407 of this title of the retired 
pay base applicable to the computation of the retired pay of a covered 
general or flag officer involves a rate of basic pay payable to that 
officer for any period between October 1, 2006, and December 31, 2014, 
that was subject to a reduction under section 203(a)(2) of title 37 for 
such period, such retired-pay-base determination shall be made using 
the rate of basic pay for such period provided by law, without regard 
to the reduction under section 203(a)(2) of title 37.
    ``(b) Partial Preservation of Computation of Retired Pay Base Using 
Uncapped Rates of Basic Pay for Covered Officers Who First Became 
Members Before September 8, 1980, and Whose Retired Pay Commences After 
December 31, 2014.--
        ``(1) Officers retiring after december 31, 2014.--In the case 
    of a covered general or flag officer who first became a member of a 
    uniformed service before September 8, 1980, and who is retired 
    after December 31, 2014, under any provision of law other than 
    chapter 1223 of this title or is transferred to the Retired Reserve 
    after December 31, 2014, the retired pay base applicable to the 
    computation of the retired pay of that officer shall be determined 
    as provided in paragraph (2) if determination of such retired pay 
    base as provided in that paragraph results in a higher retired pay 
    base than determination of such retired pay base as otherwise 
    provided by law (including the application of section 203(a)(2) of 
    title 37).
        ``(2) Alternative determination of retired pay base using 
    uncapped rates of basic pay as of december 31, 2014.--For a 
    determination in accordance with this paragraph, the amount of an 
    officer's retired pay base shall be determined by using the rate of 
    basic pay provided as of December 31, 2014, for that officer's 
    grade as of that date for purposes of basic pay, with that 
    officer's years of service creditable as of that date for purposes 
    of basic pay, and without regard to any reduction under section 
    203(a)(2) of title 37.
        ``(3) Exception for officer retired in a lower grade.--In a 
    case in which the retired grade of the officer is lower than the 
    grade in which the officer was serving on December 31, 2014, 
    paragraph (2) shall be applied as if the officer was serving on 
    that date in the officer's retired grade.
    ``(c) Preservation of Computation of Retired Pay Base Using 
Uncapped Rates of Basic Pay for Officers Transferring to Retired 
Reserve During Specified Period.--In the case of a covered general or 
flag officer who is transferred to the Retired Reserve between October 
1, 2006, and December 31, 2014, and who becomes entitled to receive 
retired pay under section 12731 of this title after December 31, 2014, 
the retired pay base applicable to the computation of the retired pay 
of that officer shall be determined using the rates of basic pay 
provided by law without regard to any reduction in rates of basic pay 
under section 203(a)(2) of title 37.
    ``(d) Covered General or Flag Officer Defined.--In this section, 
the term `covered general or flag officer' means a member or former 
member of a uniformed service who after September 30, 2006--
        ``(1) is retired in a general officer grade or flag officer 
    grade (or an equivalent grade, in the case of an officer of the 
    commissioned corps of the Public Health Service or the National 
    Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration); or
        ``(2) is transferred to the Retired Reserve in a general 
    officer grade or flag officer grade.''.
    (b) Applicability.--Section 1407a of title 10, United States Code, 
as amended by subsection (a), shall be effective for retired pay that 
commences after December 31, 2014.
    SEC. 623. INAPPLICABILITY OF REDUCED ANNUAL ADJUSTMENT OF RETIRED 
      PAY FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES UNDER THE AGE OF 62 UNDER THE 
      BIPARTISAN BUDGET ACT OF 2013 WHO FIRST BECOME MEMBERS PRIOR TO 
      JANUARY 1, 2016.
    Subparagraph (G) of section 1401a(b)(4) of title 10, United States 
Code, which shall take effect December 1, 2015, pursuant to section 
403(a) of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-67; 127 
Stat. 1186)), as amended by section 10001 of the Department of Defense 
Appropriations Act, 2014 (division C of Public Law 113-76; 128 Stat. 
151) and section 2 of Public Law 113-82 (128 Stat. 1009), is amended by 
striking ``January 1, 2014'' and inserting ``January 1, 2016''.
    SEC. 624. SURVIVOR BENEFIT PLAN ANNUITIES FOR SPECIAL NEEDS TRUSTS 
      ESTABLISHED FOR THE BENEFIT OF DEPENDENT CHILDREN INCAPABLE OF 
      SELF-SUPPORT.
    (a) Special Needs Trust as Eligible Beneficiary.--
        (1) In general.--Subsection (a) of section 1450 of title 10, 
    United States Code, is amended--
            (A) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph (4):
        ``(4) Special needs trusts for sole benefit of certain 
    dependent children.--Notwithstanding subsection (i), a supplemental 
    or special needs trust established under subparagraph (A) or (C) of 
    section 1917(d)(4) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
    1396p(d)(4)) for the sole benefit of a dependent child considered 
    disabled under section 1614(a)(3) of that Act (42 U.S.C. 
    1382c(a)(3)) who is incapable of self-support because of mental or 
    physical incapacity.''.
        (2) Conforming amendments.--
            (A) Annuities exemption.--Subsection (i) of such section is 
        amended by inserting ``(a)(4) or'' after ``subsection''.
            (B) Plan requirements.--Section 1448 of such title is 
        amended--
                (i) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the 
            following new paragraph:
        ``(6) Special needs trusts for sole benefit of certain 
    dependent children.--A person who has established a supplemental or 
    special needs trust under subparagraph (A) or (C) of section 
    1917(d)(4) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396p(d)(4)) for 
    the sole benefit of a dependent child considered disabled under 
    section 1614(a)(3) of that Act (42 U.S.C. 1382c(a)(3)) who is 
    incapable of self-support because of mental or physical incapacity 
    may elect to provide an annuity to that supplemental or special 
    needs trust.'';
                (ii) in subsection (d)(2)--

                    (I) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``section 
                1450(a)(2)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(2) or 
                (a)(4) of section 1450''; and
                    (II) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``section 
                1450(a)(3)'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(3) or 
                (a)(4) of section 1450''; and

                (iii) in subsection (f)(2), by inserting ``, or to a 
            special needs trust pursuant to section 1450(a)(4) of this 
            title,'' after ``dependent child''.
    (b) Regulations.--Section 1455(d) of such title is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``and Fiduciaries'' 
    and inserting ``, Fiduciaries, and Special Needs Trusts'';
        (2) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(C) a dependent child incapable of self-support because 
        of mental or physical incapacity for whom a supplemental or 
        special needs trust has been established under subparagraph (A) 
        or (C) of section 1917(d)(4) of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1396p(d)(4)).'';
        (3) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) through (H) as 
        subparagraphs (D) through (I), respectively;
            (B) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new 
        subparagraph (C):
            ``(C) In the case of an annuitant referred to in paragraph 
        (1)(C), payment of the annuity to the supplemental or special 
        needs trust established for the annuitant.'';
            (C) in subparagraph (D), as redesignated by subparagraph 
        (A) of this paragraph, by striking ``subparagraphs (D) and 
        (E)'' and inserting ``subparagraphs (E) and (F)''; and
            (D) in subparagraph (H), as so redesignated--
                (i) by inserting ``or (1)(C)'' after ``paragraph 
            (1)(B)'' in the matter preceding clause (i);
                (ii) in clause (i), by striking ``and'' at the end;
                (iii) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end 
            and inserting ``; and''; and
                (iv) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                ``(iii) procedures for determining when annuity 
            payments to a supplemental or special needs trust shall end 
            based on the death or marriage of the dependent child for 
            which the trust was established.''; and
        (4) in paragraph (3), by striking ``or fiduciary'' in the 
    paragraph heading and inserting ``, fiduciary, or trust''.
    SEC. 625. MODIFICATION OF PER-FISCAL YEAR CALCULATION OF DAYS OF 
      CERTAIN ACTIVE DUTY OR ACTIVE SERVICE TO REDUCE ELIGIBILITY AGE 
      FOR RETIREMENT FOR NON-REGULAR SERVICE.
    Section 12731(f)(2)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by inserting ``, subject to subparagraph (C),'' after 
    ``shall be reduced''; and
        (2) by striking ``so performs in any fiscal year after such 
    date, subject to subparagraph (C)'' and inserting ``serves on such 
    active duty or performs such active service in any fiscal year 
    after January 28, 2008, or in any two consecutive fiscal years 
    after September 30, 2014''.

    Subtitle D--Commissary and Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality 
                        Benefits and Operations

    SEC. 631. PROCUREMENT OF BRAND-NAME AND OTHER COMMERCIAL ITEMS FOR 
      RESALE BY COMMISSARY STORES.
    Subsection (f) of section 2484 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(f) Procurement of Commercial Items Using Procedures Other Than 
Competitive Procedures.--The Secretary of Defense may use the exception 
provided in section 2304(c)(5) of this title for the procurement of any 
commercial item (including brand-name and generic items) for resale in, 
at, or by commissary stores.''.
    SEC. 632. AUTHORITY OF NONAPPROPRIATED FUND INSTRUMENTALITIES TO 
      ENTER INTO CONTRACTS WITH OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES AND 
      INSTRUMENTALITIES TO PROVIDE AND OBTAIN CERTAIN GOODS AND 
      SERVICES.
    Section 2492 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``Federal department, agency, or instrumentality'' and all 
that follows through the period at the end of the section and inserting 
the following: ``Federal department, agency, or instrumentality--
        ``(1) to provide or obtain goods and services beneficial to the 
    efficient management and operation of the exchange system or that 
    morale, welfare, and recreation system; or
        ``(2) to provide or obtain food services beneficial to the 
    efficient management and operation of the dining facilities on 
    military installations offering food services to members of the 
    armed forces.''.
    SEC. 633. COMPETITIVE PRICING OF LEGAL CONSUMER TOBACCO PRODUCTS 
      SOLD IN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE RETAIL STORES.
    (a) Prohibition on Banning Sale of Legal Consumer Tobacco 
Products.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the military 
departments may not take any action to implement any new policy that 
would ban the sale of any legal consumer tobacco product category sold 
as of January 1, 2014, within the defense retail systems or on any 
Department of Defense vessel at sea.
    (b) Use of Prices Comparable to Local Prices.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall issue regulations regarding the pricing of tobacco and 
tobacco-related products sold in an outlet of the defense retail 
systems inside the United States, including territories and possessions 
of the United States, to prohibit the sale of a product at a price 
below the most competitive price for that product in the local 
community.
    (c) Application to Overseas Defense Retail Systems.--The 
regulations required by subsection (b) shall direct that the price of a 
tobacco or tobacco-related product sold in an outlet of the defense 
retail systems outside of the United States shall be within the range 
of prices established for that product in outlets of the defense retail 
systems inside the United States.
    (d) Defense Retail Systems Defined.--In this section, the term 
``defense retail systems'' has the meaning given that term in section 
2487(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 634. REVIEW OF MANAGEMENT, FOOD, AND PRICING OPTIONS FOR 
      DEFENSE COMMISSARY SYSTEM.
    (a) Review Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
review, utilizing the services of an independent organization 
experienced in grocery retail analysis, of the defense commissary 
system to determine the qualitative and quantitative effects of--
        (1) using variable pricing in commissary stores to reduce the 
    expenditure of appropriated funds to operate the defense commissary 
    system;
        (2) implementing a program to make available more private label 
    products in commissary stores;
        (3) converting the defense commissary system to a 
    nonappropriated fund instrumentality; and
        (4) eliminating or at least reducing second-destination 
    funding.
    (b) Additional Elements of Review.--The review required by this 
section also shall consider the following:
        (1) The impact of changes to the operation of the defense 
    commissary system on commissary patrons, in particular junior 
    enlisted members and junior officers and their dependents, that 
    would result from--
            (A) displacing current value and name-brand products with 
        private-label products; and
            (B) reducing or eliminating financial subsidies to the 
        commissary system.
        (2) The sensitivity of commissary patrons, in particular junior 
    enlisted members and junior officers and their dependents, to 
    pricing changes that may result in reduced overall cost savings for 
    patrons.
        (3) The feasibility of generating net revenue from pricing and 
    stock assortment changes.
        (4) The relationship of higher prices and reduced patron 
    savings to patron usage and accompanying sales, both on a national 
    and regional basis.
        (5) The impact of changes to the operation of the defense 
    commissary system on industry support; such as vendor stocking, 
    promotions, discounts, and merchandising activities and programs.
        (6) The ability of the current commissary management and 
    information technology systems to accommodate changes to the 
    existing pricing and management structure.
        (7) The product category management systems and expertise of 
    the Defense Commissary Agency.
        (8) The impact of changes to the operation of the defense 
    commissary system on military exchanges and other morale, welfare, 
    and recreation programs for members of the Armed Forces.
        (9) The identification of management and legislative changes 
    that would be required in connection with changes to the defense 
    commissary system.
        (10) An estimate of the time required to implement recommended 
    changes to the current pricing and management model of the defense 
    commissary system.
    (c) Submission.--Not later than September 1, 2015, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a report containing the results of the 
review required by this section.

                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 701. Mental health assessments for members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 702. Modifications of cost-sharing and other requirements for the 
          TRICARE Pharmacy Benefits Program.
Sec. 703. Elimination of inpatient day limits and other limits in 
          provision of mental health services.
Sec. 704. Authority for provisional TRICARE coverage for emerging health 
          care services and supplies.
Sec. 705. Clarification of provision of food to former members and 
          dependents not receiving inpatient care in military medical 
          treatment facilities.
Sec. 706. Availability of breastfeeding support, supplies, and 
          counseling under the TRICARE program.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 711. Provision of notice of change to TRICARE benefits.
Sec. 712. Surveys on continued viability of TRICARE Standard and TRICARE 
          Extra.
Sec. 713. Review of military health system modernization study.

                  Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 721. Designation and responsibilities of senior medical advisor for 
          Armed Forces Retirement Home.
Sec. 722. Extension of authority for joint Department of Defense-
          Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration 
          Fund.
Sec. 723. Report on status of reductions in TRICARE Prime service areas.
Sec. 724. Extension of authority to provide rehabilitation and 
          vocational benefits to members of the Armed Forces with severe 
          injuries or illnesses.
Sec. 725. Acquisition strategy for health care professional staffing 
          services.
Sec. 726. Pilot program on medication therapy management under TRICARE 
          program.
Sec. 727. Antimicrobial stewardship program at medical facilities of the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 728. Report on improvements in the identification and treatment of 
          mental health conditions and traumatic brain injury among 
          members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 729. Report on efforts to treat infertility of military families.
Sec. 730. Report on implementation of recommendations of Institute of 
          Medicine on improvements to certain resilience and prevention 
          programs of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 731. Comptroller General report on transition of care for post-
          traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury.
Sec. 732. Comptroller General report on mental health stigma reduction 
          efforts in the Department of Defense.
Sec. 733. Comptroller General report on women's health care services for 
          members of the Armed Forces and other covered beneficiaries.

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

    SEC. 701. MENTAL HEALTH ASSESSMENTS FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
      FORCES.
    (a) Annual Mental Health Assessments.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after section 1074m the following new section:
``Sec. 1074n. Annual mental health assessments for members of the armed 
     forces
    ``(a) Mental Health Assessments.--Subject to subsection (c), not 
less frequently than once each calendar year, the Secretary of Defense 
shall provide a person-to-person mental health assessment for--
        ``(1) each member of a regular component of the armed forces; 
    and
        ``(2) each member of the Selected Reserve of an armed force.
    ``(b) Elements.--The mental health assessments provided pursuant to 
this section shall--
        ``(1) be conducted in accordance with the requirements of 
    subsection (c)(1) of section 1074m of this title with respect to a 
    mental health assessment provided pursuant to such section; and
        ``(2) include a review of the health records of the member that 
    are related to each previous health assessment or other relevant 
    activities of the member while serving in the armed forces, as 
    determined by the Secretary.
    ``(c) Sufficiency of Other Mental Health Assessments.--(1) The 
Secretary is not required to provide a mental health assessment 
pursuant to this section to an individual in a calendar year in which 
the individual has received a mental health assessment pursuant to 
section 1074m of this title.
    ``(2) The Secretary may treat periodic health assessments and other 
person-to-person assessments that are provided to members of the armed 
forces, including examinations under section 1074f of this title, as 
meeting the requirements for mental health assessments required under 
this section if the Secretary determines that such assessments and 
person-to-person assessments meet the requirements for mental health 
assessments established by this section.
    ``(d) Privacy Matters.--Any medical or other personal information 
obtained under this section shall be protected from disclosure or 
misuse in accordance with the laws on privacy applicable to such 
information.
    ``(e) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the other administering Secretaries, prescribe regulations for the 
administration of this section.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 55 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
    relating to section 1074m the following new item:

``1074n. Annual mental health assessments for members of the armed 
          forces.''.

        (3) Implementation.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the issuance of the regulations prescribed under section 1074n(e) 
    of title 10, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), the 
    Secretary of Defense shall implement such regulations.
        (4) Report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the date on 
        which the Secretary of Defense implements the regulations 
        described in paragraph (3), the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report on the 
        annual mental health assessments of members of the Armed Forces 
        conducted pursuant to section 1074n of title 10, United States 
        Code, as added by paragraph (1).
            (B) Matters included.--The report under subparagraph (A) 
        shall include the following:
                (i) A description of the tools and processes used to 
            provide the annual mental health assessments of members of 
            the Armed Forces conducted pursuant to such section 1074n, 
            including--

                    (I) whether such tools and processes are evidenced-
                based; and
                    (II) the process by which such tools and processes 
                have been approved for use in providing mental health 
                assessments.

                (ii) Such recommendations for improving the tools and 
            processes used to conduct such assessments, including tools 
            that may address the underreporting of mental health 
            conditions, as the Secretary considers appropriate.
                (iii) Such recommendations as the Secretary considers 
            appropriate for improving the monitoring and reporting of 
            the number of members of the Armed Forces--

                    (I) who receive such assessments;
                    (II) who are referred for care based on such 
                assessments; and
                    (III) who receive care based on such referrals.

            (C) Treatment of certain information.--No personally 
        identifiable information of a member of the Armed Forces may be 
        included in any report under subparagraph (A).
        (5) Conforming amendment.--Section 1074m(e)(1) of such title is 
    amended by inserting ``and section 1074n of this title'' after 
    ``pursuant to this section''.
    (b) Frequency of Mental Health Assessments for Deployed Members.--
        (1) In general.--Section 1074m of such title is further 
    amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(1)--
                (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as 
            subparagraphs (C) and (D), respectively; and
                (ii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following 
            new subparagraph:
        ``(B) Until January 1, 2019, once during each 180-day period 
    during which a member is deployed.''; and
            (B) in subsection (c)(1)(A)--
                (i) in clause (i), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
            a semicolon;
                (ii) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause (iii); and
                (iii) by inserting after clause (i) the following new 
            clause:
            ``(ii) by personnel in deployed units whose 
        responsibilities include providing unit health care services if 
        such personnel are available and the use of such personnel for 
        the assessments would not impair the capacity of such personnel 
        to perform higher priority tasks; and''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Subsection (a)(2) of such section 
    1074m is amended by striking ``subparagraph (B) and (C)'' and 
    inserting ``subparagraphs (C) and (D)''.
    SEC. 702. MODIFICATIONS OF COST-SHARING AND OTHER REQUIREMENTS FOR 
      THE TRICARE PHARMACY BENEFITS PROGRAM.
    (a) Availability of Pharmaceutical Agents Through National Mail-
Order Pharmacy Program.--Paragraph (5) of section 1074g(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``at least one of the means described in 
    paragraph (2)(E)'' and inserting ``the national mail-order pharmacy 
    program''; and
        (2) by striking ``may include'' and all that follows through 
    the period at the end and inserting ``shall include cost-sharing by 
    the eligible covered beneficiary as specified in paragraph (6).''.
    (b) Modification of Cost-Sharing Amounts.--Paragraph (6)(A) of such 
section 1074g(a) is amended--
        (1) in clause (i)--
            (A) in subclause (I), by striking ``$5'' and inserting 
        ``$8'';
            (B) in subclause (II), by striking ``$17; and'' and 
        inserting ``$20.''; and
            (C) by striking subclause (III); and
        (2) in clause (ii)--
            (A) in subclause (II), by striking ``$13'' and inserting 
        ``$16''; and
            (B) in subclause (III), by striking ``$43'' and inserting 
        ``$46''.
    (c) Refills of Prescription Maintenance Medications Through 
Military Treatment Facility Pharmacies or National Mail Order Pharmacy 
Program.--
        (1) In general.--Such section is further amended by adding at 
    the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(9)(A) Beginning on October 1, 2015, the pharmacy benefits 
program shall require eligible covered beneficiaries generally to 
refill non-generic prescription maintenance medications through 
military treatment facility pharmacies or the national mail-order 
pharmacy program.
    ``(B) The Secretary shall determine the maintenance medications 
subject to the requirement under subparagraph (A). The Secretary shall 
ensure that--
        ``(i) such medications are generally available to eligible 
    covered beneficiaries through retail pharmacies only for an initial 
    filling of a 30-day or less supply; and
        ``(ii) any refills of such medications are obtained through a 
    military treatment facility pharmacy or the national mail-order 
    pharmacy program.
    ``(C) The Secretary may exempt the following prescription 
maintenance medications from the requirement of subparagraph (A):
        ``(i) Medications that are for acute care needs.
        ``(ii) Such other medications as the Secretary determines 
    appropriate.''.
        (2) Termination of pilot program.--Section 716(f) of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 
    112-239; 10 U.S.C. 1074g note) is amended by striking ``December 
    31, 2017'' and inserting ``September 30, 2015''.
    (d) GAO Report on Pilot Program.--Not later than July 1, 2015, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the satisfaction of 
beneficiaries participating in the pilot program under section 716 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 
112-239; 10 U.S.C. 1074g note). Such report shall address the 
following:
        (1) The satisfaction of beneficiaries participating in the 
    pilot program.
        (2) The timeliness of refilling prescriptions under the pilot 
    program.
        (3) The accuracy of prescription refills under the pilot 
    program.
        (4) The availability of medications refilled under the pilot 
    program.
        (5) The cost savings to the Department of Defense realized by 
    the pilot program.
        (6) The number of beneficiaries who did not participate in the 
    pilot program by reason of subsection (c) of such section 716.
        (7) Any other matters the Comptroller General considers 
    appropriate.
    SEC. 703. ELIMINATION OF INPATIENT DAY LIMITS AND OTHER LIMITS IN 
      PROVISION OF MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES.
    (a) Inpatient Day Limits.--Section 1079 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking paragraph (6); and
            (B) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through (17) as 
        paragraphs (6) through (16), respectively;
        (2) by striking subsection (i); and
        (3) by redesignating subsections (j) through (q) as subsections 
    (i) through (p), respectively.
    (b) Waiver of Nonavailability Statement or Preauthorization.--
Section 721(a) of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (10 U.S.C. 1073 note) is amended by striking 
``(other than mental health services)''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) in section 1079(e)(7), by striking ``subsection (a)(13)'' 
    and inserting ``subsection (a)(12)'';
        (2) in section 1086--
            (A) in subsection (d)(4)(A)(ii), by striking ``section 
        1079(j)(1)'' and inserting ``section 1079(i)(1)''; and
            (B) in subsection (g), by striking ``Section 1079(j)'' and 
        inserting ``Section 1079(i)''; and
        (3) in section 1105(c), by striking ``section 1079(a)(7)'' and 
    inserting ``section 1079(a)(6)''.
    SEC. 704. AUTHORITY FOR PROVISIONAL TRICARE COVERAGE FOR EMERGING 
      HEALTH CARE SERVICES AND SUPPLIES.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 1079b the following new section:
``Sec. 1079c. Provisional coverage for emerging services and supplies
    ``(a) Provisional Coverage.--In carrying out the TRICARE program, 
including pursuant to section 1079(a)(12) of this title, the Secretary 
of Defense, acting through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Health Affairs, may provide provisional coverage for the provision of a 
service or supply if the Secretary determines that such service or 
supply is widely recognized in the United States as being safe and 
effective.
    ``(b) Consideration of Evidence.--In making a determination under 
subsection (a), the Secretary may consider--
        ``(1) clinical trials published in refereed medical literature;
        ``(2) formal technology assessments;
        ``(3) the positions of national medical policy organizations;
        ``(4) national professional associations;
        ``(5) national expert opinion organizations; and
        ``(6) such other validated evidence as the Secretary considers 
    appropriate.
    ``(c) Independent Evaluation.--In making a determination under 
subsection (a), the Secretary may arrange for an evaluation from the 
Institute of Medicine of the National Academies or such other 
independent entity as the Secretary selects.
    ``(d) Duration and Terms of Coverage.--(1) Provisional coverage 
under subsection (a) for a service or supply may be in effect for not 
longer than a total of five years.
    ``(2) Prior to the expiration of provisional coverage of a service 
or supply, the Secretary shall determine the coverage, if any, that 
will follow such provisional coverage and take appropriate action to 
implement such determination. If the Secretary determines that the 
implementation of such determination regarding coverage requires 
legislative action, the Secretary shall make a timely recommendation to 
Congress regarding such legislative action.
    ``(3) The Secretary, at any time, may--
        ``(A) terminate the provisional coverage under subsection (a) 
    of a service or supply, regardless of whether such termination is 
    before the end of the period described in paragraph (1);
        ``(B) establish or disestablish terms and conditions for such 
    coverage; or
        ``(C) take any other action with respect to such coverage.
    ``(e) Public Notice.--The Secretary shall promptly publish on a 
publicly accessible Internet website of the TRICARE program a notice 
for each service or supply that receives provisional coverage under 
subsection (a), including any terms and conditions for such coverage.
    ``(f) Finality of Determinations.--Any determination to approve or 
disapprove a service or supply under subsection (a) and any action made 
under subsection (d)(3) shall be final.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
1079b the following new item:

``1079c. Provisional coverage for emerging services and supplies.''.
    SEC. 705. CLARIFICATION OF PROVISION OF FOOD TO FORMER MEMBERS AND 
      DEPENDENTS NOT RECEIVING INPATIENT CARE IN MILITARY MEDICAL 
      TREATMENT FACILITIES.
    Section 1078b of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``A member'' each place it appears and 
    inserting ``A member or former member''; and
        (2) in subsection (a)(2)(C), by striking ``member or 
    dependent'' and inserting ``member, former member, or dependent''.
    SEC. 706. AVAILABILITY OF BREASTFEEDING SUPPORT, SUPPLIES, AND 
      COUNSELING UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.
    Section 1079(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(17) Breastfeeding support, supplies (including breast pumps 
    and associated equipment), and counseling shall be provided as 
    appropriate during pregnancy and the postpartum period.''.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

    SEC. 711. PROVISION OF NOTICE OF CHANGE TO TRICARE BENEFITS.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 1097c the following new section:
``Sec. 1097d. TRICARE program: notice of change to benefits
    ``(a) Provision of Notice.--(1) If the Secretary makes a 
significant change to any benefits provided by the TRICARE program to 
covered beneficiaries, the Secretary shall provide individuals 
described in paragraph (2) with notice explaining such changes.
    ``(2) The individuals described by this paragraph are covered 
beneficiaries participating in the TRICARE program who may be affected 
by a significant change covered by a notification under paragraph (1).
    ``(3) The Secretary shall provide notice under paragraph (1) 
through electronic means.
    ``(b) Timing of Notice.--The Secretary shall provide notice under 
paragraph (1) of subsection (a) by the earlier of the following dates:
        ``(1) The date that the Secretary determines would afford 
    individuals described in paragraph (2) of such subsection adequate 
    time to understand the change covered by the notification.
        ``(2) The date that is 90 days before the date on which the 
    change covered by the notification becomes effective.
        ``(3) The effective date of a significant change that is 
    required by law.
    ``(c) Significant Change Defined.--In this section, the term 
`significant change' means a systemwide change--
        ``(1) in the structure of the TRICARE program or the benefits 
    provided under the TRICARE program (not including the addition of 
    new services or benefits); or
        ``(2) in beneficiary cost-share rates of more than 20 
    percent.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
1097c the following new item:

``1097d. TRICARE program: notice of change to benefits.''.
    SEC. 712. SURVEYS ON CONTINUED VIABILITY OF TRICARE STANDARD AND 
      TRICARE EXTRA.
    Section 711(b)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2008 (10 U.S.C. 1073 note) is amended in the matter 
preceding subparagraph (A)--
        (1) by striking ``on a biennial basis''; and
        (2) by striking ``paragraph (1)'' and inserting the following: 
    ``paragraph (1) during 2017 and 2020''.
    SEC. 713. REVIEW OF MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM MODERNIZATION STUDY.
    (a) Limitation.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may not restructure 
    or realign a military medical treatment facility based on the 
    modernization study until a 90-day period has elapsed following the 
    date on which the Comptroller General of the United States is 
    required to submit to the congressional defense committees the 
    report under subsection (b)(3).
        (2) Report.--The Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
    defense committees a report that includes the following:
            (A) During the period from 2006 to 2012, for each military 
        medical treatment facility considered under the modernization 
        study--
                (i) the average daily inpatient census;
                (ii) the average inpatient capacity;
                (iii) the top five inpatient admission diagnoses;
                (iv) each medical specialty available;
                (v) the average daily percent of staffing available for 
            each medical specialty;
                (vi) the beneficiary population within the catchment 
            area;
                (vii) the budgeted funding level;
                (viii) whether the facility has a helipad capable of 
            receiving medical evacuation airlift patients arriving on 
            the primary evacuation aircraft platform for the military 
            installation served;
                (ix) a determination of whether the civilian hospital 
            system in which the facility resides is a Federally-
            designated underserved medical community and the effect on 
            such community from any reduction in staff or functions or 
            downgrade of the facility;
                (x) if the facility serves a training center--

                    (I) a determination of the risk with respect to 
                high-tempo, live-fire military operations, treating 
                battlefield-like injuries, and the potential for a mass 
                casualty event if the facility is downgraded to a 
                clinic or reduced in personnel or capabilities; and
                    (II) a description of the extent to which the 
                Secretary, in making such determination, consulted with 
                the appropriate training directorate, training and 
                doctrine command, and forces command of each military 
                department;

                (xi) a site assessment by TRICARE to assess the network 
            capabilities of TRICARE providers in the local area;
                (xii) the inpatient mental health availability; and
                (xiii) the average annual inpatient care directed to 
            civilian medical facilities.
            (B) For each military medical treatment facility considered 
        under the modernization study--
                (i) the civilian capacity by medical specialty in each 
            catchment area;
                (ii) the distance in miles to the nearest civilian 
            emergency care department;
                (iii) the distance in miles to the closest civilian 
            inpatient hospital, listed by level of care and whether the 
            facility is designated a sole community hospital;
                (iv) the availability of ambulance service on the 
            military installation and the distance in miles to the 
            nearest civilian ambulance service, including the average 
            response time to the military installation;
                (v) an estimate of the cost to restructure or realign 
            the military medical treatment facility, including with 
            respect to bed closures and civilian personnel reductions; 
            and
                (vi) if the military medical treatment facility is 
            restructured or realigned, an estimate of--

                    (I) the number of civilian personnel reductions, 
                listed by series;
                    (II) the number of local support contracts 
                terminated; and
                    (III) the increased cost of purchased care.

            (C) The results of the modernization study with respect to 
        the recommendations of the Secretary to restructure or realign 
        military medical treatment facilities.
            (D) An assessment of the analysis made by the Secretary to 
        inform decisions regarding the modernization of the military 
        health care system in the modernization study.
            (E) An assessment of the extent to which the Secretary 
        evaluated in the modernization study the impact on the access 
        of eligible beneficiaries to quality health care, and 
        satisfaction with such care, caused by the following changes 
        proposed in the study:
                (i) Changes in military medical treatment facility 
            infrastructure.
                (ii) Changes in staffing levels of professionals.
                (iii) Changes in inpatient, ambulatory surgery, and 
            specialty care capacity and capabilities.
            (F) An assessment of the extent to which the Secretary 
        evaluated in the modernization study how any reduced inpatient, 
        ambulatory surgery, or specialty care capacity and capabilities 
        at military medical treatment facilities covered by the study 
        would impact timely access to care for eligible beneficiaries 
        at local civilian community hospitals within reasonable driving 
        distances of the catchment areas of such facilities.
            (G) An assessment of the extent to which the Secretary 
        consulted in conducting the modernization study with community 
        hospitals in locations covered by the study to determine their 
        capacities for additional inpatient and ambulatory surgery 
        patients and their capabilities to meet additional demands for 
        specialty care services.
            (H) An assessment of the extent to which the Secretary 
        considered in the modernization study the impact that the 
        change in the structure or alignment of military medical 
        treatment facilities covered by the study would have on timely 
        access by local civilian populations to inpatient, ambulatory 
        surgery, or specialty care services if additional eligible 
        beneficiaries also sought access to such services from the same 
        providers.
            (I) An assessment of the impact of the elimination of 
        health care services at military medical treatment facilities 
        covered by the modernization study on civilians employed at 
        such facilities.
    (b) Comptroller General Review.--
        (1) Review.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
    review the report under subsection (a)(2).
        (2) Elements.--The review under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following:
            (A) An assessment of the methodology used by the Secretary 
        of Defense in conducting the study.
            (B) An assessment of the adequacy of the data used by the 
        Secretary with respect to such study.
        (3) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date on which 
    the Secretary submits the report under subsection (a)(2), the 
    Comptroller General shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a report on the review under paragraph (1).
    (c) Modernization Study Defined.--In this section, the term 
``modernization study'' means the Military Health System Modernization 
Study of the Department of Defense directed by the Resource Management 
Decision of the Department of Defense numbered MP-D-01.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

    SEC. 721. DESIGNATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF SENIOR MEDICAL 
      ADVISOR FOR ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT HOME.
    (a) Designation of Senior Medical Advisor.--Subsection (a) of 
section 1513A of the Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (24 
U.S.C. 413a) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Deputy Director of the 
    TRICARE Management Activity'' and inserting ``Deputy Director of 
    the Defense Health Agency''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Deputy Director of the 
    TRICARE Management Activity'' both places it appears and inserting 
    ``Deputy Director of the Defense Health Agency''.
    (b) Clarification of Responsibilities and Duties of Senior Medical 
Advisor.--Subsection (c)(2) of such section is amended by striking 
``health care standards of the Department of Veterans Affairs'' and 
inserting ``nationally recognized health care standards and 
requirements''.
    SEC. 722. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-
      DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY DEMONSTRATION 
      FUND.
    Section 1704(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2573) is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2015'' and inserting ``September 30, 2016''.
    SEC. 723. REPORT ON STATUS OF REDUCTIONS IN TRICARE PRIME SERVICE 
      AREAS.
    (a) Report Required.--Section 732 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (10 U.S.C. 1097a note) is 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (c) 
    and (d), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
    subsection (b):
    ``(b) Additional Report.--
        ``(1) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
    of the enactment of the Carl Levin and Howard P. `Buck' McKeon 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015, the 
    Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the status of 
    reducing the availability of TRICARE Prime in regions described in 
    subsection (d)(1)(B).
        ``(2) Matters included.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            ``(A) A description of the implementation of the transition 
        for affected eligible beneficiaries under the TRICARE program 
        who no longer have access to TRICARE Prime under TRICARE 
        managed care contracts as of the date of the report, 
        including--
                ``(i) the number of eligible beneficiaries who have 
            transitioned from TRICARE Prime to the TRICARE Standard 
            option of the TRICARE program since October 1, 2013;
                ``(ii) the number of eligible beneficiaries who 
            transferred their TRICARE Prime enrollment to a more 
            distant available Prime service area to remain in TRICARE 
            Prime, by State;
                ``(iii) the number of eligible beneficiaries who were 
            eligible to transfer to a more distant available Prime 
            service area, but chose to use TRICARE Standard;
                ``(iv) the number of eligible beneficiaries who elected 
            to return to TRICARE Prime pursuant to subsection (c)(1); 
            and
                ``(v) the number of affected eligible beneficiaries 
            who, as of the date of the report, changed residences to 
            remain eligible for TRICARE Prime in a new region.
            ``(B) An estimate of the increased annual costs per 
        affected eligible beneficiary incurred by such beneficiary for 
        health care under the TRICARE program.
            ``(C) A description of the efforts of the Department to 
        assess the impact on access to health care and beneficiary 
        satisfaction for affected eligible beneficiaries.
            ``(D) A description of the estimated cost savings realized 
        by reducing the availability of TRICARE Prime in regions 
        described in subsection (d)(1)(B).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (b)(3)(A) of such section is 
amended by striking ``subsection (c)(1)(B)'' and inserting ``subsection 
(d)(1)(B)''.
    SEC. 724. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE REHABILITATION AND 
      VOCATIONAL BENEFITS TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WITH SEVERE 
      INJURIES OR ILLNESSES.
    Section 1631(b)(2) of the Wounded Warrior Act (title XVI of Public 
Law 110-181; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note) is amended by striking ``December 31, 
2014'' and inserting ``December 31, 2015''.
    SEC. 725. ACQUISITION STRATEGY FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL 
      STAFFING SERVICES.
    (a) Acquisition Strategy.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop and 
    carry out an acquisition strategy with respect to entering into 
    contracts for the services of health care professional staff at 
    military medical treatment facilities.
        (2) Elements.--The acquisition strategy under paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following:
            (A) Identification of the responsibilities of the military 
        departments and elements of the Department of Defense in 
        carrying out such strategy.
            (B) Methods to analyze, using reliable and detailed data 
        covering the entire Department, the amount of funds expended on 
        contracts for the services of health care professional staff.
            (C) Methods to identify opportunities to consolidate 
        requirements for such services and reduce cost.
            (D) Methods to measure cost savings that are realized by 
        using such contracts instead of purchased care.
            (E) Metrics to determine the effectiveness of such 
        strategy.
            (F) Metrics to evaluate the success of the strategy in 
        achieving its objectives, including metrics to assess the 
        effects of the strategy on the timeliness of beneficiary access 
        to professional health care services in military medical 
        treatment facilities.
            (G) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the status of implementing the 
acquisition strategy under paragraph (1) of subsection (a), including 
how each element under subparagraphs (A) through (G) of paragraph (2) 
of such subsection is being carried out.
    SEC. 726. PILOT PROGRAM ON MEDICATION THERAPY MANAGEMENT UNDER 
      TRICARE PROGRAM.
    (a) Establishment.--In accordance with section 1092 of title 10, 
United States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot 
program to evaluate the feasibility and desirability of including 
medication therapy management as part of the TRICARE program.
    (b) Elements of Pilot Program.--In carrying out the pilot program 
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall ensure the following:
        (1) Patients who participate in the pilot program are patients 
    who--
            (A) have more than one chronic condition; and
            (B) are prescribed more than one medication.
        (2) Medication therapy management services provided under the 
    pilot program are focused on improving patient use and outcomes of 
    prescription medications.
        (3) The design of the pilot program considers best commercial 
    practices in providing medication therapy management services, 
    including practices under the prescription drug program under part 
    D of title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-101 et 
    seq.).
        (4) The pilot program includes methods to measure the effect of 
    medication therapy management services on--
            (A) patient use and outcomes of prescription medications; 
        and
            (B) the costs of health care.
    (c) Locations.--
        (1) Selection.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program 
    under subsection (a) in not less than three locations.
        (2) First location criteria.--Not less than one location 
    selected under paragraph (1) shall meet the following criteria:
            (A) The location is a pharmacy at a military medical 
        treatment facility.
            (B) The patients participating in the pilot program at such 
        location generally receive primary care services from health 
        care providers at such facility.
        (3) Second location criteria.--Not less than one location 
    selected under paragraph (1) shall meet the following criteria:
            (A) The location is a pharmacy at a military medical 
        treatment facility.
            (B) The patients participating in the pilot program at such 
        location generally do not receive primary care services from 
        health care providers at such facility.
        (4) Third location criterion.--Not less than one location 
    selected under paragraph (1) shall be a pharmacy located at a 
    location other than a military medical treatment facility.
    (d) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program 
under subsection (a) for a period determined appropriate by the 
Secretary that is not less than two years.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 30 months after the date on which the 
Secretary commences the pilot program under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on the pilot program that includes--
        (1) information on the effect of medication therapy management 
    services on--
            (A) patient use and outcomes of prescription medications; 
        and
            (B) the costs of health care;
        (2) the recommendations of the Secretary with respect to 
    incorporating medication therapy management into the TRICARE 
    program; and
        (3) such other information as the Secretary determines 
    appropriate.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``medication therapy management'' means 
    professional services provided by qualified pharmacists to patients 
    to improve the effective use and outcomes of prescription 
    medications provided to the patients.
        (2) The term ``TRICARE program'' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 727. ANTIMICROBIAL STEWARDSHIP PROGRAM AT MEDICAL FACILITIES 
      OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall carry out an 
antimicrobial stewardship program at medical facilities of the 
Department of Defense.
    (b) Collection and Analysis of Data.--In carrying out the 
antimicrobial stewardship program required by subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall develop a consistent manner in which to collect and 
analyze data on antibiotic usage, health issues related to antibiotic 
usage, and antimicrobial resistance trends at medical facilities of the 
Department.
    (c) Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a plan for 
carrying out the antimicrobial stewardship program required by 
subsection (a).
    SEC. 728. REPORT ON IMPROVEMENTS IN THE IDENTIFICATION AND 
      TREATMENT OF MENTAL HEALTH CONDITIONS AND TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY 
      AMONG MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report setting forth an evaluation of specific tools, 
processes, and best practices to improve the identification of and 
treatment by the Armed Forces of mental health conditions and traumatic 
brain injury among members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) An evaluation of existing peer-to-peer identification and 
    intervention programs in each of the Armed Forces.
        (2) An evaluation of programs that provide training and 
    certification to health care providers that treat mental health 
    conditions and traumatic brain injury in members of the Armed 
    Forces.
        (3) An evaluation of programs and services provided by the 
    Armed Forces that provide training and certification to providers 
    of cognitive rehabilitation and other rehabilitation for traumatic 
    brain injury to members of the Armed Forces.
        (4) An evaluation of programs and services provided by the 
    Armed Forces that assist members of the Armed Forces and family 
    members affected by suicides among members of the Armed Forces.
        (5) An evaluation of tools and processes used by the Armed 
    Forces to identify traumatic brain injury in members of the Armed 
    Forces and to distinguish mental health conditions likely caused by 
    traumatic brain injury from mental health conditions caused by 
    other factors.
        (6) An evaluation of the unified effort of the Armed Forces to 
    promote mental health and prevent suicide through the integration 
    of clinical and nonclinical programs of the Armed Forces.
        (7) Recommendations with respect to improving, consolidating, 
    expanding, and standardizing the programs, services, tools, 
    processes, and efforts described in paragraphs (1) through (6).
        (8) A description of existing efforts to reduce the time from 
    development and testing of new mental health and traumatic brain 
    injury tools and treatments for members of the Armed Forces to 
    widespread dissemination of such tools and treatments among the 
    Armed Forces.
        (9) Recommendations as to the feasibility and advisability of 
    conducting mental health assessments before the enlistment or 
    commissioning of a member of the Armed Forces and again during the 
    90-day period preceding the date of discharge or release of the 
    member from the Armed Forces, including the utility of using tools 
    and processes in such mental health assessments that conform to 
    those used in other mental health assessments provided to members 
    of the Armed Forces.
        (10) Recommendations on how to track changes in the mental 
    health assessment of a member of the Armed Forces relating to 
    traumatic brain injury, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, 
    anxiety, and other conditions.
    (c) Privacy Matters.--
        (1) In general.--Any medical or other personal information 
    obtained pursuant to any provision of this section shall be 
    protected from disclosure or misuse in accordance with the laws on 
    privacy applicable to such information.
        (2) Exclusion of personally identifiable information from 
    reports.--No personally identifiable information may be included in 
    the report required by subsection (a).
    SEC. 729. REPORT ON EFFORTS TO TREAT INFERTILITY OF MILITARY 
      FAMILIES.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report assessing the access of 
members of the Armed Forces and the dependents of such members to 
reproductive counseling and treatments for infertility.
    (b) Matters Included.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) A description, by location, of the infertility treatment 
    services available at military medical treatment facilities 
    throughout the military health care system.
        (2) An identification of factors that might disrupt treatment, 
    including lack of timely access to treatment, change in duty 
    station, or overseas deployments.
        (3) The number of members of the Armed Forces who have received 
    specific infertility treatment services during the five-year period 
    preceding the date of the report.
        (4) The number of dependents of members who have received 
    specific infertility treatment services during the five-year period 
    preceding the date of the report.
        (5) The number of births resulting from infertility treatment 
    services described in paragraphs (3) and (4).
        (6) A comparison of infertility treatment services covered by 
    health plans sponsored by the Federal Government and infertility 
    treatment services provided by the military health care system.
        (7) The current cost to the Department of Defense for providing 
    infertility treatment services to members and dependents.
        (8) The current cost to members and dependents for infertility 
    treatment services provided by the military health care system.
        (9) Any other matters the Secretary determines appropriate.
    SEC. 730. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDATIONS OF INSTITUTE 
      OF MEDICINE ON IMPROVEMENTS TO CERTAIN RESILIENCE AND PREVENTION 
      PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
setting forth an assessment of the feasibility and advisability of 
implementing the recommendations of the Institute of Medicine regarding 
improvements to programs of the Department of Defense intended to 
strengthen mental, emotional, and behavioral abilities associated with 
managing adversity, adapting to change, recovering, and learning in 
connection with service in the Armed Forces.
    SEC. 731. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON TRANSITION OF CARE FOR 
      POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER OR TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY.
    (a) Report.--Not later than September 1, 2015, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees and the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a report that assesses the transition of 
care for post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury.
    (b) Matters Included.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) The programs, policies, and regulations that affect the 
    transition of care, particularly with respect to individuals who 
    are taking or have been prescribed antidepressants, stimulants, 
    antipsychotics, mood stabilizers, anxiolytics, depressants, or 
    hallucinogens.
        (2) Upon transitioning to care furnished by the Secretary of 
    Veterans Affairs, the extent to which the pharmaceutical treatment 
    plan of an individual changes, and the factors determining such 
    changes.
        (3) The extent to which the Secretary of Defense and the 
    Secretary of Veterans Affairs have worked together to identify and 
    apply best pharmaceutical treatment practices.
        (4) A description of the off-formulary waiver process of the 
    Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the extent to which the process 
    is applied efficiently at the treatment level.
        (5) The benefits and challenges of harmonizing the formularies 
    across the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans 
    Affairs.
        (6) Any other issues that the Comptroller General determines 
    appropriate.
    (c) Transition of Care Defined.--In this section, the term 
``transition of care'' means the transition of an individual from 
receiving treatment furnished by the Secretary of Defense to treatment 
furnished by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    SEC. 732. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON MENTAL HEALTH STIGMA 
      REDUCTION EFFORTS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
carry out a review of the policies, procedures, and programs of the 
Department of Defense to reduce the stigma associated with mental 
health treatment for members of the Armed Forces and deployed civilian 
employees of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The review under subsection (a) shall address, at a 
minimum, the following:
        (1) An assessment of the availability and access to mental 
    health treatment services for members of the Armed Forces and 
    deployed civilian employees of the Department of Defense.
        (2) An assessment of the perception of the impact of the stigma 
    of mental health treatment on the career advancement and retention 
    of members of the Armed Forces and such employees.
        (3) An assessment of the policies, procedures, and programs, 
    including training and education, of each of the Armed Forces to 
    reduce the stigma of mental health treatment for members of the 
    Armed Forces and such employees at each unit level of the organized 
    forces.
    (c) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2016, the Comptroller General 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a report on the review under subsection 
(a).
    SEC. 733. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON WOMEN'S HEALTH CARE 
      SERVICES FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AND OTHER COVERED 
      BENEFICIARIES.
    (a) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a report on women's health care services 
for members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty and other 
covered beneficiaries under chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) A description and assessment of women's health care 
    services for members of the Armed Forces and other covered 
    beneficiaries, including with respect to access to care, scope of 
    available care, and availability of speciality care, and with a 
    particular emphasis on maternity care.
        (2) An assessment of whether the quality measures used by the 
    military health care system with respect to women's health care 
    services for members of the Armed Forces and other covered 
    beneficiaries facilitate expected outcomes, and an assessment of 
    whether another, or additional, evidence-based quality measures 
    would improve outcomes in the military health care system.
        (3) A description and assessment of nationally recognized 
    recommendations to improve access to health services and better 
    health outcomes for women members of the Armed Forces and other 
    covered beneficiaries.
        (4) Such recommendations for legislative or administrative 
    action as the Comptroller General considers appropriate to improve 
    women's health care services for members of the Armed Forces and 
    other covered beneficiaries.

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

              Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 801. Modular open systems approaches in acquisition programs.
Sec. 802. Recharacterization of changes to Major Automated Information 
          System programs.
Sec. 803. Amendments relating to defense business systems.
Sec. 804. Report on implementation of acquisition process for 
          information technology systems.

 Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                             and Limitations

Sec. 811. Extension and modification of contract authority for advanced 
          component development and prototype units.
Sec. 812. Amendments relating to authority of the Defense Advanced 
          Research Projects Agency to carry out certain prototype 
          projects.
Sec. 813. Extension of limitation on aggregate annual amount available 
          for contract services.
Sec. 814. Improvement in defense design-build construction process.
Sec. 815. Permanent authority for use of simplified acquisition 
          procedures for certain commercial items.
Sec. 816. Restatement and revision of requirements applicable to 
          multiyear defense acquisitions to be specifically authorized 
          by law.
Sec. 817. Sourcing requirements related to avoiding counterfeit 
          electronic parts.
Sec. 818. Amendments to Proof of Concept Commercialization Pilot 
          Program.

                   Subtitle C--Industrial Base Matters

Sec. 821. Temporary extension of and amendments to test program for 
          negotiation of comprehensive small business subcontracting 
          plans.
Sec. 822. Plan for improving data on bundled or consolidated contracts.
Sec. 823. Authority to provide education to small businesses on certain 
          requirements of Arms Export Control Act.
Sec. 824. Matters relating to reverse auctions.
Sec. 825. Sole source contracts for small business concerns owned and 
          controlled by women.

      Subtitle D--Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform

Sec. 831. Chief Information Officer authority enhancements.
Sec. 832. Enhanced transparency and improved risk management in 
          information technology investments.
Sec. 833. Portfolio review.
Sec. 834. Federal data center consolidation initiative.
Sec. 835. Expansion of training and use of information technology 
          cadres.
Sec. 836. Maximizing the benefit of the Federal strategic sourcing 
          initiative.
Sec. 837. Governmentwide software purchasing program.

                Subtitle E--Never Contract With the Enemy

Sec. 841. Prohibition on providing funds to the enemy.
Sec. 842. Additional access to records.
Sec. 843. Definitions.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 851. Rapid acquisition and deployment procedures for United States 
          Special Operations Command.
Sec. 852. Consideration of corrosion control in preliminary design 
          review.
Sec. 853. Program manager development report.
Sec. 854. Operational metrics for Joint Information Environment and 
          supporting activities.
Sec. 855. Compliance with requirements for senior Department of Defense 
          officials seeking employment with defense contractors.
Sec. 856. Enhancement of whistleblower protection for employees of 
          grantees.
Sec. 857. Prohibition on reimbursement of contractors for congressional 
          investigations and inquiries.
Sec. 858. Requirement to provide photovoltaic devices from United States 
          sources.
Sec. 859. Reimbursement of Department of Defense for assistance provided 
          to nongovernmental entertainment-oriented media producers.
Sec. 860. Three-year extension of authority for Joint Urgent Operational 
          Needs Fund.

             Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

    SEC. 801. MODULAR OPEN SYSTEMS APPROACHES IN ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    (a) Plan for Modular Open Systems Approach Through Development and 
Adoption of Standards and Architectures.--Not later than January 1, 
2016, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
Logistics shall submit a report to the Committees on Armed Services of 
the Senate and the House of Representatives detailing a plan to develop 
standards and define architectures necessary to enable open systems 
approaches in the key mission areas of the Department of Defense with 
respect to which the Under Secretary determines that such standards and 
architectures would be feasible and cost effective.
    (b) Consideration of Modular Open Systems Approaches.--
        (1) Review of acquisition guidance.--The Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall review 
    current acquisition guidance, and modify such guidance as 
    necessary, to--
            (A) ensure that acquisition programs include open systems 
        approaches in the product design and acquisition of information 
        technology systems to the maximum extent practicable; and
            (B) for any information technology system not using an open 
        systems approach, ensure that written justification is provided 
        in the contract file for the system detailing why an open 
        systems approach was not used.
        (2) Elements.--The review required in paragraph (1) shall--
            (A) consider whether the guidance includes appropriate 
        exceptions for the acquisition of--
                (i) commercial items; and
                (ii) solutions addressing urgent operational needs;
            (B) determine the extent to which open systems approaches 
        should be addressed in analysis of alternatives, acquisition 
        strategies, system engineering plans, and life cycle 
        sustainment plans; and
            (C) ensure that increments of acquisition programs consider 
        the extent to which the increment will implement open systems 
        approaches as a whole.
        (3) Deadline for review.--The review required in this 
    subsection shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Treatment of Ongoing and Legacy Programs.--
        (1) Report requirement.--Not later than one year after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a report covering the matters specified in 
    paragraph (2).
        (2) Matters covered.--Subject to paragraph (3), the report 
    required in this subsection shall--
            (A) identify all information technology systems that are in 
        development, production, or deployed status as of the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, that are or were major defense 
        acquisition programs or major automated information systems, 
        and that are not using an open systems approach;
            (B) identify gaps in standards and architectures necessary 
        to enable open systems approaches in the key mission areas of 
        the Department of Defense, as determined pursuant to the plan 
        submitted under subsection (a); and
            (C) outline a process for potential conversion to an open 
        systems approach for each information technology system 
        identified under subparagraph (A).
        (3) Limitations.--The report required in this subsection shall 
    not include information technology systems--
            (A) having a planned increment before fiscal year 2021 that 
        will result in conversion to an open systems approach; and
            (B) that will be in operation for fewer than 15 years after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Information technology.--The term ``information 
    technology'' has the meaning given the term in section 11101(6) of 
    title 40, United States Code.
        (2) Open systems approach.--The term ``open systems approach'' 
    means, with respect to an information technology system, an 
    integrated business and technical strategy that--
            (A) employs a modular design and uses widely supported and 
        consensus-based standards for key interfaces;
            (B) is subjected to successful validation and verification 
        tests to ensure key interfaces comply with widely supported and 
        consensus-based standards; and
            (C) uses a system architecture that allows components to be 
        added, modified, replaced, removed, or supported by different 
        vendors throughout the lifecycle of the system to afford 
        opportunities for enhanced competition and innovation while 
        yielding--
                (i) significant cost and schedule savings; and
                (ii) increased interoperability.
    SEC. 802. RECHARACTERIZATION OF CHANGES TO MAJOR AUTOMATED 
      INFORMATION SYSTEM PROGRAMS.
    (a) Addition to Covered Determination of a Significant Change.--
Subsection (c)(2) of section 2445c of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; or''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(D) the automated information system or information 
        technology investment failed to achieve a full deployment 
        decision within five years after the Milestone A decision for 
        the program or, if there was no Milestone A decision, the date 
        when the preferred alternative is selected for the program 
        (excluding any time during which program activity is delayed as 
        a result of a bid protest).''.
    (b) Removal of Covered Determination of a Critical Change.--
Subsection (d)(3) of such section is amended--
        (1) by striking subparagraph (A); and
        (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) as 
    subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), respectively.
    (c) Technical Amendment for Clarity.--Subsection (d)(2) of such 
section is amended by striking ``(A) is primarily due to an extension 
of a program, and (B) involves'' and inserting ``are primarily due to 
an extension of a program and involve''.
    SEC. 803. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO DEFENSE BUSINESS SYSTEMS.
    (a) Exclusion of Certain Information Systems From Definition of 
Defense Business System.--Subsection (j)(1) of section 2222 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(1)'';
        (2) by striking ``, other than a national security system,''; 
    and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(B) The term does not include--
            ``(i) a national security system; or
            ``(ii) an information system used exclusively by and within 
        the defense commissary system or the exchange system or other 
        instrumentality of the Department of Defense conducted for the 
        morale, welfare, and recreation of members of the armed forces 
        using nonappropriated funds.''.
    (b) Business Process Mapping Requirement.--Section 2222 of such 
title is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1)(A), by inserting ``, including 
    business process mapping,'' after ``re-engineering efforts''; and
        (2) in subsection (j), by adding at the end the following new 
    paragraph:
        ``(6) The term `business process mapping' means a procedure in 
    which the steps in a business process are clarified and documented 
    in both written form and in a flow chart.''.
    SEC. 804. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF ACQUISITION PROCESS FOR 
      INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology and Logistics shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the implementation of the acquisition process 
for information technology systems required by section 804 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 2402; 10 U.S.C. 2225 note).
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall, at a 
minimum, include the following elements:
        (1) The applicable regulations, instructions, or policies 
    implementing the acquisition process.
        (2) With respect to the criteria established for such process 
    in section 804(a) of such Act--
            (A) an explanation for any criteria not yet implemented;
            (B) a schedule for the implementation of any criteria not 
        yet implemented; and
            (C) an explanation for any proposed deviation from the 
        criteria.
        (3) Identification of any categories of information technology 
    acquisitions to which the acquisition process will not apply.
        (4) Recommendations for any legislation that may be required to 
    implement the remaining criteria of the acquisition process.

Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

    SEC. 811. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORITY FOR 
      ADVANCED COMPONENT DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPE UNITS.
    Section 819 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2409; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``advanced component 
        development or prototype of technology'' and inserting 
        ``advanced component development, prototype, or initial 
        production of technology''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``prototype items'' and 
        inserting ``items''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5);
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph (4):
        ``(4) Applicability.--The authority provided in subsection (a) 
    applies only to the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the 
    Army, the Secretary of the Navy, and the Secretary of the Air 
    Force.''; and
            (C) in paragraph (5), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``September 30, 2014'' and inserting ``September 30, 2019''.
    SEC. 812. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO AUTHORITY OF THE DEFENSE ADVANCED 
      RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN PROTOTYPE PROJECTS.
    (a) Amendment Relating to Authority.--Section 845(a)(1) of Public 
Law 103-160 (10 U.S.C. 2371 note) is amended by striking ``weapons or 
weapon systems proposed to be acquired or developed by the Department 
of Defense, or to improvement of weapons or weapon systems in use by 
the Armed Forces'' and inserting the following: ``enhancing the mission 
effectiveness of military personnel and the supporting platforms, 
systems, components, or materials proposed to be acquired or developed 
by the Department of Defense, or to improvement of platforms, systems, 
components, or materials in use by the Armed Forces''.
    (b) Amendments Relating to Small Business.--Section 845 of Public 
Law 103-160 (10 U.S.C. 2371 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (d)(1)(B), by inserting ``or small business'' 
    after ``defense contractor''; and
        (2) in subsection (f)--
            (A) by striking ``Nontraditional Defense Contractor 
        Defined.--In this section, the'' and inserting the following: 
        ``Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) The term `small business' means a small business concern 
    as defined under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
    632).''.
    SEC. 813. EXTENSION OF LIMITATION ON AGGREGATE ANNUAL AMOUNT 
      AVAILABLE FOR CONTRACT SERVICES.
    Section 808 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1489), as amended by section 
802 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
(Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 804) is further amended--
        (1) in subsections (a) and (b), by striking ``or 2014'' and 
    inserting ``2014, or 2015'';
        (2) in subsection (c)(3), by striking ``and 2014'' and 
    inserting ``2014, and 2015'';
        (3) in subsection (d)(4), by striking ``or 2014'' and inserting 
    ``2014, or 2015'';
        (4) in subsection (e), by striking ``2014'' and inserting 
    ``2015''; and
        (5) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Use of Other Data.--For purposes of compliance with 
subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (c)(2), the Secretaries of the 
military departments and the heads of the Defense Agencies may use 
other available sources of data, such as advisory and assistance 
services information collected for purposes of the annual budget 
submission of the Department of Defense, to corroborate data from the 
annual inventory of contractor services required in section 2330a of 
title 10, United States Code. Any discrepancy identified between the 
inventory data and the data from other available sources shall be 
resolved and reported to the congressional defense committees.''.
    SEC. 814. IMPROVEMENT IN DEFENSE DESIGN-BUILD CONSTRUCTION PROCESS.
    Section 2305a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking the second sentence of subsection (d) and inserting the 
following: ``If the contract value exceeds $4,000,000, the maximum 
number specified in the solicitation shall not exceed 5 unless the head 
of the contracting activity, delegable to a level no lower than the 
senior contracting official within the contracting activity, approves 
the contracting officer's justification with respect to an individual 
solicitation that a number greater than 5 is in the Federal 
Government's interest. The contracting officer shall provide written 
documentation of how a maximum number exceeding 5 is consistent with 
the purposes and objectives of the two-phase selection procedures.''.
    SEC. 815. PERMANENT AUTHORITY FOR USE OF SIMPLIFIED ACQUISITION 
      PROCEDURES FOR CERTAIN COMMERCIAL ITEMS.
    Section 4202 of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996 (division D of Public 
Law 104-106; 10 U.S.C. 2304 note) is amended by striking subsection 
(e).
    SEC. 816. RESTATEMENT AND REVISION OF REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO 
      MULTIYEAR DEFENSE ACQUISITIONS TO BE SPECIFICALLY AUTHORIZED BY 
      LAW.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (i) of section 2306b of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(i) Defense Acquisitions Specifically Authorized by Law.--(1) In 
the case of the Department of Defense, a multiyear contract in an 
amount equal to or greater than $500,000,000 may not be entered into 
under this section unless the contract is specifically authorized by 
law in an Act other than an appropriations Act.
    ``(2) In submitting a request for a specific authorization by law 
to carry out a defense acquisition program using multiyear contract 
authority under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall include in 
the request the following:
        ``(A) A report containing preliminary findings of the agency 
    head required in paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (a), 
    together with the basis for such findings.
        ``(B) Confirmation that the preliminary findings of the agency 
    head under subparagraph (A) were made after the completion of a 
    cost analysis performed by the Director of Cost Assessment and 
    Program Evaluation for the purpose of section 2334(e)(1) of this 
    title, and that the analysis supports those preliminary findings.
    ``(3) A multiyear contract may not be entered into under this 
section for a defense acquisition program that has been specifically 
authorized by law to be carried out using multiyear contract authority 
unless the Secretary of Defense certifies in writing, not later than 30 
days before entry into the contract, that each of the following 
conditions is satisfied:
        ``(A) The Secretary has determined that each of the 
    requirements in paragraphs (1) through (6) of subsection (a) will 
    be met by such contract and has provided the basis for such 
    determination to the congressional defense committees.
        ``(B) The Secretary's determination under subparagraph (A) was 
    made after completion of a cost analysis conducted on the basis of 
    section 2334(e)(2) of this title, and the analysis supports the 
    determination.
        ``(C) The system being acquired pursuant to such contract has 
    not been determined to have experienced cost growth in excess of 
    the critical cost growth threshold pursuant to section 2433(d) of 
    this title within 5 years prior to the date the Secretary 
    anticipates such contract (or a contract for advance procurement 
    entered into consistent with the authorization for such contract) 
    will be awarded.
        ``(D) A sufficient number of end items of the system being 
    acquired under such contract have been delivered at or within the 
    most current estimates of the program acquisition unit cost or 
    procurement unit cost for such system to determine that current 
    estimates of such unit costs are realistic.
        ``(E) During the fiscal year in which such contract is to be 
    awarded, sufficient funds will be available to perform the contract 
    in such fiscal year, and the future-years defense program for such 
    fiscal year will include the funding required to execute the 
    program without cancellation.
        ``(F) The contract is a fixed price type contract.
        ``(G) The proposed multiyear contract provides for production 
    at not less than minimum economic rates given the existing tooling 
    and facilities.
    ``(4) If for any fiscal year a multiyear contract to be entered 
into under this section is authorized by law for a particular 
procurement program and that authorization is subject to certain 
conditions established by law (including a condition as to cost savings 
to be achieved under the multiyear contract in comparison to specified 
other contracts) and if it appears (after negotiations with 
contractors) that such savings cannot be achieved, but that substantial 
savings could nevertheless be achieved through the use of a multiyear 
contract rather than specified other contracts, the President may 
submit to Congress a request for relief from the specified cost savings 
that must be achieved through multiyear contracting for that program. 
Any such request by the President shall include details about the 
request for a multiyear contract, including details about the 
negotiated contract terms and conditions.
    ``(5)(A) The Secretary may obligate funds for procurement of an end 
item under a multiyear contract for the purchase of property only for 
procurement of a complete and usable end item.
    ``(B) The Secretary may obligate funds appropriated for any fiscal 
year for advance procurement under a contract for the purchase of 
property only for the procurement of those long-lead items necessary in 
order to meet a planned delivery schedule for complete major end items 
that are programmed under the contract to be acquired with funds 
appropriated for a subsequent fiscal year (including an economic order 
quantity of such long-lead items when authorized by law).
    ``(6) The Secretary may make the certification under paragraph (3) 
notwithstanding the fact that one or more of the conditions of such 
certification are not met, if the Secretary determines that, due to 
exceptional circumstances, proceeding with a multiyear contract under 
this section is in the best interest of the Department of Defense and 
the Secretary provides the basis for such determination with the 
certification.
    ``(7) The Secretary may not delegate the authority to make the 
certification under paragraph (3) or the determination under paragraph 
(6) to an official below the level of Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (a)(7) of such section is 
amended by striking ``subparagraphs (C) through (F) of paragraph (1) of 
subsection (i)'' and inserting ``subparagraphs (C) through (F) of 
subsection (i)(3)''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with 
respect to requests for specific authorization by law to carry out 
defense acquisition programs using multiyear contract authority that 
are made on or after that date.
    SEC. 817. SOURCING REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO AVOIDING COUNTERFEIT 
      ELECTRONIC PARTS.
    Section 818(c)(3) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1495; 10 U.S.C. 2302 
note) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A)--
            (A) by striking ``, whenever possible,'';
            (B) in clause (i)--
                (i) by striking ``trusted suppliers'' and inserting 
            ``suppliers identified as trusted suppliers in accordance 
            with regulations issued pursuant to subparagraph (C) or 
            (D)''; and
                (ii) by striking ``; and'' and inserting a semicolon;
            (C) in clause (ii), by striking ``trusted suppliers;'' and 
        inserting ``suppliers identified as trusted suppliers in 
        accordance with regulations issued pursuant to subparagraph (C) 
        or (D); and''; and
            (D) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                ``(iii) obtain electronic parts from alternate 
            suppliers if such parts are not available from original 
            manufacturers, their authorized dealers, or suppliers 
            identified as trusted suppliers in accordance with 
            regulations prescribed pursuant to subparagraph (C) or 
            (D);'';
        (2) in subparagraph (B)--
            (A) by inserting ``for'' before ``inspection''; and
            (B) by striking ``subparagraph (A)'' and inserting ``clause 
        (i) or (ii) of subparagraph (A), if obtaining the electronic 
        parts in accordance with such clauses is not possible''; and
        (3) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``identify trusted 
    suppliers that have appropriate policies'' and inserting ``identify 
    as trusted suppliers those that have appropriate policies''.
    SEC. 818. AMENDMENTS TO PROOF OF CONCEPT COMMERCIALIZATION PILOT 
      PROGRAM.
    (a) Authority for Secretaries of Military Departments to Carry Out 
Pilot.--Section 1603(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 944; 10 U.S.C. 2359 
note) is amended by inserting after ``Engineering'' the following: 
``and the Secretary of each military department''.
    (b) Review Board Revisions.--
        (1) Section 1603(c)(3)(B)(i) of such Act is amended to read as 
    follows:
                ``(i) rigorous review of commercialization potential or 
            military utility of technologies, including through use of 
            outside expertise;''.
        (2) Section 1603(d)(1) of such Act is amended by striking ``, 
    including incentives and activities undertaken by review board 
    experts''.
    (c) Increase in Amount of Awards.--Section 1603(c)(5)(B)(i) of such 
Act is amended by striking ``$500,000'' and inserting ``$1,000,000''.
    (d) Authority for Use of Basic Research Funds.--Section 1603(f) of 
such Act is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``and Use of Funds'' after ``Limitation''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following: ``The Secretary of a 
    military department may use basic research funds, or other funds 
    considered appropriate by the Secretary, to conduct the pilot 
    program within the military department concerned.''
    (e) One-Year Extension.--Section 1603(g) of such Act is amended by 
striking ``2018'' and inserting ``2019''.

                  Subtitle C--Industrial Base Matters

    SEC. 821. TEMPORARY EXTENSION OF AND AMENDMENTS TO TEST PROGRAM FOR 
      NEGOTIATION OF COMPREHENSIVE SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLANS.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (e) of section 834 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (15 U.S.C. 637 
note) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2014'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2017''.
    (b) Additional Requirements for Comprehensive Subcontracting 
Plans.--Subsection (b) of section 834 of such Act is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``paragraph (3)'' and 
    inserting ``paragraph (4)'';
        (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4), and in 
    that paragraph by striking ``$5,000,000'' and inserting 
    ``$100,000,000''; and
        (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
    paragraph (3):
    ``(3) Each comprehensive subcontracting plan of a contractor shall 
require that the contractor report to the Secretary of Defense on a 
semi-annual basis the following information:
        ``(A) The amount of first-tier subcontract dollars awarded 
    during the six-month period covered by the report to covered small 
    business concerns, with the information set forth separately--
            ``(i) by North American Industrial Classification System 
        code;
            ``(ii) by major defense acquisition program, as defined in 
        section 2430(a) of title 10, United States Code;
            ``(iii) by contract, if the contract is for the 
        maintenance, overhaul, repair, servicing, rehabilitation, 
        salvage, modernization, or modification of supplies, systems, 
        or equipment and the total value of the contract, including 
        options, exceeds $100,000,000; and
            ``(iv) by military department.
        ``(B) The total number of subcontracts active under the test 
    program during the six-month period covered by the report that 
    would have otherwise required a subcontracting plan under paragraph 
    (4) or (5) of section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
    637(d)).
        ``(C) Costs incurred in negotiating, complying with, and 
    reporting on comprehensive subcontracting plans.
        ``(D) Costs avoided by adoption of a comprehensive 
    subcontracting plan.''.
    (c) Additional Consequence for Failure to Make Good Faith Effort to 
Comply.--
        (1) Amendments.--Subsection (d) of section 834 of such Act is 
    amended--
            (A) by striking ``Company-wide'' and inserting 
        ``Comprehensive'' in the heading;
            (B) by striking ``company-wide'' and inserting 
        ``comprehensive subcontracting''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following: ``In addition, any 
        such failure shall be a factor considered as part of the 
        evaluation of past performance of an offeror.''.
        (2) Repeal of suspension of subsection (d).--Section 402 of 
    Public Law 101-574 (104 Stat. 2832; 15 U.S.C. 637 note) is 
    repealed.
    (d) Eligibility Requirement.--Subsection (d) of section 834 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (15 
U.S.C. 637 note) is further amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``A contractor that''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) Effective in fiscal year 2016 and each fiscal year thereafter 
in which the test program is in effect, the Secretary of Defense may 
not negotiate a comprehensive subcontracting plan for a fiscal year 
with any contractor with which such a plan was negotiated in the prior 
fiscal year if the Secretary determines that the contractor did not 
meet the subcontracting goals negotiated in the plan for the prior 
fiscal year.''.
    (e) Report by Comptroller General.--Subsection (f) of section 834 
of such Act is amended to read as follows:
    ``(f) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2015, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall submit a report on the results of 
the test program to the Committees on Armed Services and on Small 
Business of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Armed 
Services and on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate.''.
    (f) Additional Definitions.--
        (1) Covered small business concern.--Subsection (g) of section 
    834 of such Act is amended to read as follows:
    ``(g) Definitions.--In this section, the term `covered small 
business concern' includes each of the following:
        ``(1) A small business concern, as that term is defined under 
    section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(a)).
        ``(2) A small business concern owned and controlled by 
    veterans, as that term is defined in section 3(q)(3) of such Act 
    (15 U.S.C. 632(q)(3)).
        ``(3) A small business concern owned and controlled by service-
    disabled veterans, as that term is defined in section 3(q)(2) of 
    such Act (15 U.S.C. 632(q)(2)).
        ``(4) A qualified HUBZone small business concern, as that term 
    is defined under section 3(p)(5) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 632(p)(5)).
        ``(5) A small business concern owned and controlled by socially 
    and economically disadvantaged individuals, as that term is defined 
    in section 8(d)(3)(C) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(3)(C)).
        ``(6) A small business concern owned and controlled by women, 
    as that term is defined under section 3(n) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 
    632(n)).''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 834 of 
    such Act is amended by striking ``small business concerns and small 
    business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically 
    disadvantaged individuals'' and inserting ``covered small business 
    concerns''.
    SEC. 822. PLAN FOR IMPROVING DATA ON BUNDLED OR CONSOLIDATED 
      CONTRACTS.
    (a) Plan Required.--Section 15 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
644) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(s) Data Quality Improvement Plan.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than October 1, 2015, the 
    Administrator of the Small Business Administration, in consultation 
    with the Small Business Procurement Advisory Council, the 
    Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy, and the Administrator 
    of General Services, shall develop a plan to improve the quality of 
    data reported on bundled or consolidated contracts in the Federal 
    procurement data system (described in section 1122(a)(4)(A) of 
    title 41, United States Code).
        ``(2) Plan requirements.--The plan shall--
            ``(A) describe the roles and responsibilities of the 
        Administrator of the Small Business Administration, each 
        Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization, the 
        Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy, the Administrator 
        of General Services, senior procurement executives, and Chief 
        Acquisition Officers in--
                ``(i) improving the quality of data reported on bundled 
            or consolidated contracts in the Federal procurement data 
            system; and
                ``(ii) contributing to the annual report required by 
            subsection (p)(4);
            ``(B) recommend changes to policies and procedures, 
        including training procedures of relevant personnel, to 
        properly identify and mitigate the effects of bundled or 
        consolidated contracts;
            ``(C) recommend requirements for periodic and statistically 
        valid data verification and validation; and
            ``(D) recommend clear data verification responsibilities.
        ``(3) Plan submission.--The Administrator of the Small Business 
    Administration shall submit the plan to the Committee on Small 
    Business of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Small 
    Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate not later than December 
    1, 2016.
        ``(4) Definitions.--In this subsection, the following 
    definitions apply:
            ``(A) Chief acquisition officer; senior procurement 
        executive.--The terms `Chief Acquisition Officer' and `senior 
        procurement executive' have the meanings given such terms in 
        section 44(a) of this Act.
            ``(B) Bundled or consolidated contract.--The term `bundled 
        or consolidated contract' means a bundled contract (as defined 
        in section 3(o)) or a contract resulting from the consolidation 
        of contracting requirements (as defined in section 
        44(a)(2)).''.
    (b) Technical Amendment.--Section 44(a) of the Small Business Act 
(15 U.S.C. 657q(a)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by inserting ``appointed or'' before ``designated''; 
        and
            (B) by striking ``section 16(a) of the Office of Federal 
        Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 414(a))'' and inserting 
        ``section 1702(a) of title 41, United States Code''; and
        (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``section 16(c) of the Office 
    of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 414(c))'' and 
    inserting ``section 1702(c) of title 41, United States Code''.
    SEC. 823. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE EDUCATION TO SMALL BUSINESSES ON 
      CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS OF ARMS EXPORT CONTROL ACT.
    (a) Assistance at Small Business Development Centers.--Section 
21(c)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(c)(1)) is amended by 
inserting at the end the following: ``Applicants receiving grants under 
this section may also assist small businesses by providing, where 
appropriate, education on the requirements applicable to small 
businesses under the regulations issued under section 38 of the Arms 
Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778) and on compliance with those 
requirements.''.
    (b) Procurement Technical Assistance.--Section 2418 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(c) An eligible entity assisted by the Department of Defense 
under this chapter also may furnish education on the requirements 
applicable to small businesses under the regulations issued under 
section 38 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778) and on 
compliance with those requirements.''.
    SEC. 824. MATTERS RELATING TO REVERSE AUCTIONS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall clarify 
regulations on reverse auctions, as necessary, to ensure that--
        (1) single bid contracts may not be entered into resulting from 
    reverse auctions unless compliant with existing Federal regulations 
    and Department of Defense memoranda providing guidance on single 
    bid offers;
        (2) all reverse auctions provide offerors with the ability to 
    submit revised bids throughout the course of the auction;
        (3) if a reverse auction is conducted by a third party--
            (A) inherently governmental functions are not performed by 
        private contractors, including by the third party; and
            (B) past performance or financial responsibility 
        information created by the third party is made available to 
        offerors; and
        (4) reverse auctions resulting in design-build military 
    construction contracts specifically authorized in law are 
    prohibited.
    (b) Training.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President of the Defense Acquisition 
University shall establish comprehensive training available for 
contract specialists in the Department of Defense on the use of reverse 
auctions.
    (c) Design-Build Defined.--In this section, the term ``design-
build'' means procedures used for the selection of a contractor on the 
basis of price and other evaluation criteria to perform, in accordance 
with the provisions of a firm fixed-price contract, both the design and 
construction of a facility using performance specifications supplied by 
the Secretary of Defense.
    SEC. 825. SOLE SOURCE CONTRACTS FOR SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS OWNED 
      AND CONTROLLED BY WOMEN.
    (a) Authority for Sole Source Contracts for Certain Small Business 
Concerns Owned and Controlled by Women.--Subsection (m) of section 8 of 
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(m)) is amended--
        (1) by amending paragraph (2)(E) to read as follows:
            ``(E) each of the concerns is certified by a Federal 
        agency, a State government, the Administrator, or a national 
        certifying entity approved by the Administrator as a small 
        business concern owned and controlled by women.'';
        (2) in paragraph (5), by striking ``paragraph (2)(F)'' each 
    place such term appears and inserting ``paragraph (2)(E)''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(7) Authority for sole source contracts for economically 
    disadvantaged small business concerns owned and controlled by 
    women.--A contracting officer may award a sole source contract 
    under this subsection to any small business concern owned and 
    controlled by women described in paragraph (2)(A) and certified 
    under paragraph (2)(E) if--
            ``(A) such concern is determined to be a responsible 
        contractor with respect to performance of the contract 
        opportunity and the contracting officer does not have a 
        reasonable expectation that 2 or more businesses described in 
        paragraph (2)(A) will submit offers;
            ``(B) the anticipated award price of the contract 
        (including options) will not exceed--
                ``(i) $6,500,000, in the case of a contract opportunity 
            assigned a standard industrial classification code for 
            manufacturing; or
                ``(ii) $4,000,000, in the case of any other contract 
            opportunity; and
            ``(C) in the estimation of the contracting officer, the 
        contract award can be made at a fair and reasonable price.
        ``(8) Authority for sole source contracts for small business 
    concerns owned and controlled by women in substantially 
    underrepresented industries.--A contracting officer may award a 
    sole source contract under this subsection to any small business 
    concern owned and controlled by women certified under paragraph 
    (2)(E) that is in an industry in which small business concerns 
    owned and controlled by women are substantially underrepresented 
    (as determined by the Administrator under paragraph (3)) if--
            ``(A) such concern is determined to be a responsible 
        contractor with respect to performance of the contract 
        opportunity and the contracting officer does not have a 
        reasonable expectation that 2 or more businesses in an industry 
        that has received a waiver under paragraph (3) will submit 
        offers;
            ``(B) the anticipated award price of the contract 
        (including options) will not exceed--
                ``(i) $6,500,000, in the case of a contract opportunity 
            assigned a standard industrial classification code for 
            manufacturing; or
                ``(ii) $4,000,000, in the case of any other contract 
            opportunity; and
            ``(C) in the estimation of the contracting officer, the 
        contract award can be made at a fair and reasonable price.''.
    (b) Reporting on Goals for Sole Source Contracts for Small Business 
Concerns Owned and Controlled by Women.--Clause (viii) of subsection 
15(h)(2)(E) of such Act is amended--
        (1) in subclause (IV), by striking ``and'' after the semicolon;
        (2) by redesignating subclause (V) as subclause (VIII); and
        (3) by inserting after subclause (IV) the following new 
    subclauses:

                    ``(V) through sole source contracts awarded using 
                the authority under subsection 8(m)(7);
                    ``(VI) through sole source contracts awarded using 
                the authority under section 8(m)(8);
                    ``(VII) by industry for contracts described in 
                subclause (III), (IV), (V), or (VI); and''.

    (c) Accelerated Deadline for Report on Industries Underrepresented 
by Small Business Concerns Owned and Controlled by Women.--Paragraph 
(2) of section 29(o) of such Act is amended by striking ``5 years after 
the date of enactment'' and inserting ``3 years after the date of 
enactment''.

     Subtitle D--Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform

    SEC. 831. CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER AUTHORITY ENHANCEMENTS.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 113 of title 40, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 11319. Resources, planning, and portfolio management
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `covered agency' means each agency listed in 
    section 901(b)(1) or 901(b)(2) of title 31.
        ``(2) The term `information technology' has the meaning given 
    that term under capital planning guidance issued by the Office of 
    Management and Budget.
    ``(b) Additional Authorities for Chief Information Officers.--
        ``(1) Planning, programming, budgeting, and execution 
    authorities for cios.--
            ``(A) In general.--The head of each covered agency other 
        than the Department of Defense shall ensure that the Chief 
        Information Officer of the agency has a significant role in--
                ``(i) the decision processes for all annual and multi-
            year planning, programming, budgeting, and execution 
            decisions, related reporting requirements, and reports 
            related to information technology; and
                ``(ii) the management, governance, and oversight 
            processes related to information technology.
            ``(B) Budget formulation.--The Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget shall require in the annual information 
        technology capital planning guidance of the Office of 
        Management and Budget the following:
                ``(i) That the Chief Information Officer of each 
            covered agency other than the Department of Defense approve 
            the information technology budget request of the covered 
            agency, and that the Chief Information Officer of the 
            Department of Defense review and provide recommendations to 
            the Secretary of Defense on the information technology 
            budget request of the Department.
                ``(ii) That the Chief Information Officer of each 
            covered agency certify that information technology 
            investments are adequately implementing incremental 
            development, as defined in capital planning guidance issued 
            by the Office of Management and Budget.
            ``(C) Review.--
                ``(i) In general.--A covered agency other than the 
            Department of Defense--

                    ``(I) may not enter into a contract or other 
                agreement for information technology or information 
                technology services, unless the contract or other 
                agreement has been reviewed and approved by the Chief 
                Information Officer of the agency;
                    ``(II) may not request the reprogramming of any 
                funds made available for information technology 
                programs, unless the request has been reviewed and 
                approved by the Chief Information Officer of the 
                agency; and
                    ``(III) may use the governance processes of the 
                agency to approve such a contract or other agreement if 
                the Chief Information Officer of the agency is included 
                as a full participant in the governance processes.

                ``(ii) Delegation.--

                    ``(I) In general.--Except as provided in subclause 
                (II), the duties of a Chief Information Officer under 
                clause (i) are not delegable.
                    ``(II) Non-major information technology 
                investments.--For a contract or agreement for a non-
                major information technology investment, as defined in 
                the annual information technology capital planning 
                guidance of the Office of Management and Budget, the 
                Chief Information Officer of a covered agency other 
                than the Department of Defense may delegate the 
                approval of the contract or agreement under clause (i) 
                to an individual who reports directly to the Chief 
                Information Officer.

        ``(2) Personnel-related authority.--Notwithstanding any other 
    provision of law, for each covered agency other than the Department 
    of Defense, the Chief Information Officer of the covered agency 
    shall approve the appointment of any other employee with the title 
    of Chief Information Officer, or who functions in the capacity of a 
    Chief Information Officer, for any component organization within 
    the covered agency.
    ``(c) Limitation.--None of the authorities provided in this section 
shall apply to telecommunications or information technology that is 
fully funded by amounts made available--
        ``(1) under the National Intelligence Program, defined by 
    section 3(6) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
    3003(6));
        ``(2) under the Military Intelligence Program or any successor 
    program or programs; or
        ``(3) jointly under the National Intelligence Program and the 
    Military Intelligence Program (or any successor program or 
    programs).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 113 of 
title 40, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 11318 the following new item:

``11319. Resources, planning, and portfolio management.''.
    SEC. 832. ENHANCED TRANSPARENCY AND IMPROVED RISK MANAGEMENT IN 
      INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY INVESTMENTS.
    Section 11302(c) of title 40, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as paragraphs (2) 
    and (5), respectively;
        (2) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so redesignated, the 
    following new paragraph (1):
        ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            ``(A) The term `covered agency' means an agency listed in 
        section 901(b)(1) or 901(b)(2) of title 31.
            ``(B) The term `major information technology investment' 
        means an investment within a covered agency information 
        technology investment portfolio that is designated by the 
        covered agency as major, in accordance with capital planning 
        guidance issued by the Director.
            ``(C) The term `national security system' has the meaning 
        provided in section 3542 of title 44.''; and
        (3) by inserting after paragraph (2), as so redesignated, the 
    following new paragraphs:
        ``(3) Public availability.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Director shall make available to the 
        public a list of each major information technology investment, 
        without regard to whether the investments are for new 
        information technology acquisitions or for operations and 
        maintenance of existing information technology, including data 
        on cost, schedule, and performance.
            ``(B) Agency information.--
                ``(i) The Director shall issue guidance to each covered 
            agency for reporting of data required by subparagraph (A) 
            that provides a standardized data template that can be 
            incorporated into existing, required data reporting formats 
            and processes. Such guidance shall integrate the reporting 
            process into current budget reporting that each covered 
            agency provides to the Office of Management and Budget, to 
            minimize additional workload. Such guidance shall also 
            clearly specify that the investment evaluation required 
            under subparagraph (C) adequately reflect the investment's 
            cost and schedule performance and employ incremental 
            development approaches in appropriate cases.
                ``(ii) The Chief Information Officer of each covered 
            agency shall provide the Director with the information 
            described in subparagraph (A) on at least a semi-annual 
            basis for each major information technology investment, 
            using existing data systems and processes.
            ``(C) Investment evaluation.--For each major information 
        technology investment listed under subparagraph (A), the Chief 
        Information Officer of the covered agency, in consultation with 
        other appropriate agency officials, shall categorize the 
        investment according to risk, in accordance with guidance 
        issued by the Director.
            ``(D) Continuous improvement.--If either the Director or 
        the Chief Information Officer of a covered agency determines 
        that the information made available from the agency's existing 
        data systems and processes as required by subparagraph (B) is 
        not timely and reliable, the Chief Information Officer, in 
        consultation with the Director and the head of the agency, 
        shall establish a program for the improvement of such data 
        systems and processes.
            ``(E) Waiver or limitation authority.--The applicability of 
        subparagraph (A) may be waived or the extent of the information 
        may be limited by the Director, if the Director determines that 
        such a waiver or limitation is in the national security 
        interests of the United States.
            ``(F) Additional limitation.--The requirements of 
        subparagraph (A) shall not apply to national security systems 
        or to telecommunications or information technology that is 
        fully funded by amounts made available--
                ``(i) under the National Intelligence Program, defined 
            by section 3(6) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
            U.S.C. 3003(6));
                ``(ii) under the Military Intelligence Program or any 
            successor program or programs; or
                ``(iii) jointly under the National Intelligence Program 
            and the Military Intelligence Program (or any successor 
            program or programs).
        ``(4) Risk management.--For each major information technology 
    investment listed under paragraph (3)(A) that receives a high risk 
    rating, as described in paragraph (3)(C), for 4 consecutive 
    quarters--
            ``(A) the Chief Information Officer of the covered agency 
        and the program manager of the investment within the covered 
        agency, in consultation with the Administrator of the Office of 
        Electronic Government, shall conduct a review of the investment 
        that shall identify--
                ``(i) the root causes of the high level of risk of the 
            investment;
                ``(ii) the extent to which these causes can be 
            addressed; and
                ``(iii) the probability of future success;
            ``(B) the Administrator of the Office of Electronic 
        Government shall communicate the results of the review under 
        subparagraph (A) to--
                ``(i) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
            Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of 
            the Senate;
                ``(ii) the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 
            and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
            Representatives; and
                ``(iii) the committees of the Senate and the House of 
            Representatives with primary jurisdiction over the agency;
            ``(C) in the case of a major information technology 
        investment of the Department of Defense, the assessment 
        required by subparagraph (A) may be accomplished in accordance 
        with section 2445c of title 10, provided that the results of 
        the review are provided to the Administrator of the Office of 
        Electronic Government upon request and to the committees 
        identified in subsection (B); and
            ``(D) for a covered agency other than the Department of 
        Defense, if on the date that is one year after the date of 
        completion of the review required under subsection (A), the 
        investment is rated as high risk under paragraph (3)(C), the 
        Director shall deny any request for additional development, 
        modernization, or enhancement funding for the investment until 
        the date on which the Chief Information Officer of the covered 
        agency determines that the root causes of the high level of 
        risk of the investment have been addressed, and there is 
        sufficient capability to deliver the remaining planned 
        increments within the planned cost and schedule.
        ``(5) Sunset of certain provisions.--Paragraphs (1), (3), and 
    (4) shall not be in effect on and after the date that is 5 years 
    after the date of the enactment of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
    `Buck' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2015.''.
    SEC. 833. PORTFOLIO REVIEW.
    Section 11319 of title 40, United States Code, as added by section 
831, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
    ``(c) Information Technology Portfolio, Program, and Resource 
Reviews.--
        ``(1) Process.--The Director of the Office of Management and 
    Budget, in consultation with the Chief Information Officers of 
    appropriate agencies, shall implement a process to assist covered 
    agencies in reviewing their portfolio of information technology 
    investments--
            ``(A) to identify or develop ways to increase the 
        efficiency and effectiveness of the information technology 
        investments of the covered agency;
            ``(B) to identify or develop opportunities to consolidate 
        the acquisition and management of information technology 
        services, and increase the use of shared-service delivery 
        models;
            ``(C) to identify potential duplication and waste;
            ``(D) to identify potential cost savings;
            ``(E) to develop plans for actions to optimize the 
        information technology portfolio, programs, and resources of 
        the covered agency;
            ``(F) to develop ways to better align the information 
        technology portfolio, programs, and financial resources of the 
        covered agency to any multi-year funding requirements or 
        strategic plans required by law;
            ``(G) to develop a multi-year strategy to identify and 
        reduce duplication and waste within the information technology 
        portfolio of the covered agency, including component-level 
        investments and to identify projected cost savings resulting 
        from such strategy; and
            ``(H) to carry out any other goals that the Director may 
        establish.
        ``(2) Metrics and performance indicators.--The Director of the 
    Office of Management and Budget, in consultation with the Chief 
    Information Officers of appropriate agencies, shall develop 
    standardized cost savings and cost avoidance metrics and 
    performance indicators for use by agencies for the process 
    implemented under paragraph (1).
        ``(3) Annual review.--The Chief Information Officer of each 
    covered agency, in conjunction with the Chief Operating Officer or 
    Deputy Secretary (or equivalent) of the covered agency and the 
    Administrator of the Office of Electronic Government, shall conduct 
    an annual review of the information technology portfolio of the 
    covered agency.
        ``(4) Applicability to the department of defense.--In the case 
    of the Department of Defense, processes established pursuant to 
    this subsection shall apply only to the business systems 
    information technology portfolio of the Department of Defense and 
    not to national security systems as defined by section 11103(a) of 
    this title. The annual review required by paragraph (3) shall be 
    carried out by the Deputy Chief Management Officer of the 
    Department of Defense (or any successor to such Officer), in 
    consultation with the Chief Information Officer, the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, 
    and other appropriate Department of Defense officials. The 
    Secretary of Defense may designate an existing investment or 
    management review process to fulfill the requirement for the annual 
    review required by paragraph (3), in consultation with the 
    Administrator of the Office of Electronic Government.
        ``(5) Quarterly reports.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Administrator of the Office of 
        Electronic Government shall submit a quarterly report on the 
        cost savings and reductions in duplicative information 
        technology investments identified through the review required 
        by paragraph (3) to--
                ``(i) the Committee on Homeland Security and 
            Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of 
            the Senate;
                ``(ii) the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform 
            and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
            Representatives; and
                ``(iii) upon a request by any committee of Congress, to 
            that committee.
            ``(B) Inclusion in other reports.--The reports required 
        under subparagraph (A) may be included as part of another 
        report submitted to the committees of Congress described in 
        clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of subparagraph (A).
        ``(6) Sunset.--This subsection shall not be in effect on and 
    after the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of 
    the Carl Levin and Howard P. `Buck' McKeon National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015.''.
    SEC. 834. FEDERAL DATA CENTER CONSOLIDATION INITIATIVE.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
    Administrator of the Office of Electronic Government established 
    under section 3602 of title 44, United States Code (and also known 
    as the Office of E-Government and Information Technology), within 
    the Office of Management and Budget.
        (2) Covered agency.--The term ``covered agency'' means the 
    following (including all associated components of the agency):
            (A) Department of Agriculture.
            (B) Department of Commerce.
            (C) Department of Defense.
            (D) Department of Education.
            (E) Department of Energy.
            (F) Department of Health and Human Services.
            (G) Department of Homeland Security.
            (H) Department of Housing and Urban Development.
            (I) Department of the Interior.
            (J) Department of Justice.
            (K) Department of Labor.
            (L) Department of State.
            (M) Department of Transportation.
            (N) Department of Treasury.
            (O) Department of Veterans Affairs.
            (P) Environmental Protection Agency.
            (Q) General Services Administration.
            (R) National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
            (S) National Science Foundation.
            (T) Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
            (U) Office of Personnel Management.
            (V) Small Business Administration.
            (W) Social Security Administration.
            (X) United States Agency for International Development.
        (3) FDCCI.--The term ``FDCCI'' means the Federal Data Center 
    Consolidation Initiative described in the Office of Management and 
    Budget Memorandum on the Federal Data Center Consolidation 
    Initiative, dated February 26, 2010, or any successor thereto.
        (4) Government-wide data center consolidation and optimization 
    metrics.--The term ``Government-wide data center consolidation and 
    optimization metrics'' means the metrics established by the 
    Administrator under subsection (b)(2)(G).
    (b) Federal Data Center Consolidation Inventories and Strategies.--
        (1) In general.--
            (A) Annual reporting.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
        (C), each year, beginning in the first fiscal year after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act and each fiscal year 
        thereafter, the head of each covered agency, assisted by the 
        Chief Information Officer of the agency, shall submit to the 
        Administrator--
                (i) a comprehensive inventory of the data centers 
            owned, operated, or maintained by or on behalf of the 
            agency; and
                (ii) a multi-year strategy to achieve the consolidation 
            and optimization of the data centers inventoried under 
            clause (i), that includes--

                    (I) performance metrics--

                        (aa) that are consistent with the Government-
                    wide data center consolidation and optimization 
                    metrics; and
                        (bb) by which the quantitative and qualitative 
                    progress of the agency toward the goals of the 
                    FDCCI can be measured;

                    (II) a timeline for agency activities to be 
                completed under the FDCCI, with an emphasis on 
                benchmarks the agency can achieve by specific dates;
                    (III) year-by-year calculations of investment and 
                cost savings for the period beginning on the date of 
                the enactment of this Act and ending on the date set 
                forth in subsection (e), broken down by each year, 
                including a description of any initial costs for data 
                center consolidation and optimization and life cycle 
                cost savings and other improvements, with an emphasis 
                on--

                        (aa) meeting the Government-wide data center 
                    consolidation and optimization metrics; and
                        (bb) demonstrating the amount of agency-
                    specific cost savings each fiscal year achieved 
                    through the FDCCI; and

                    (IV) any additional information required by the 
                Administrator.

            (B) Use of other reporting structures.--The Administrator 
        may require a covered agency to include the information 
        required to be submitted under this subsection through 
        reporting structures determined by the Administrator to be 
        appropriate.
            (C) Department of defense reporting.--For any year that the 
        Department of Defense is required to submit a performance plan 
        for reduction of resources required for data servers and 
        centers, as required under section 2867(b) of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 2223a 
        note), the Department of Defense--
                (i) may submit to the Administrator, in lieu of the 
            multi-year strategy required under subparagraph (A)(ii)--

                    (I) the defense-wide plan required under section 
                2867(b)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
                for Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 2223a note); and
                    (II) the report on cost savings required under 
                section 2867(d) of the National Defense Authorization 
                Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 2223a note); and

                (ii) shall submit the comprehensive inventory required 
            under subparagraph (A)(i), unless the defense-wide plan 
            required under section 2867(b)(2) of the National Defense 
            Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 2223a 
            note)--

                    (I) contains a comparable comprehensive inventory; 
                and
                    (II) is submitted under clause (i).

            (D) Statement.--Each year, beginning in the first fiscal 
        year after the date of the enactment of this Act and each 
        fiscal year thereafter, the head of each covered agency, acting 
        through the Chief Information Officer of the agency, shall--
                (i)(I) submit a statement to the Administrator stating 
            whether the agency has complied with the requirements of 
            this section; and
                (II) make the statement submitted under subclause (I) 
            publicly available; and
                (ii) if the agency has not complied with the 
            requirements of this section, submit a statement to the 
            Administrator explaining the reasons for not complying with 
            such requirements.
            (E) Agency implementation of strategies.--
                (i) In general.--Each covered agency, under the 
            direction of the Chief Information Officer of the agency, 
            shall--

                    (I) implement the strategy required under 
                subparagraph (A)(ii); and
                    (II) provide updates to the Administrator, on a 
                quarterly basis, of--

                        (aa) the completion of activities by the agency 
                    under the FDCCI;
                        (bb) any progress of the agency towards meeting 
                    the Government-wide data center consolidation and 
                    optimization metrics; and
                        (cc) the actual cost savings and other 
                    improvements realized through the implementation of 
                    the strategy of the agency.
                (ii) Department of defense.--For purposes of clause 
            (i)(I), implementation of the defense-wide plan required 
            under section 2867(b)(2) of the National Defense 
            Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 2223a 
            note) by the Department of Defense shall be considered 
            implementation of the strategy required under subparagraph 
            (A)(ii).
            (F) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
        construed to limit the reporting of information by a covered 
        agency to the Administrator, the Director of the Office of 
        Management and Budget, or Congress.
        (2) Administrator responsibilities.--The Administrator shall--
            (A) establish the deadline, on an annual basis, for covered 
        agencies to submit information under this section;
            (B) establish a list of requirements that the covered 
        agencies must meet to be considered in compliance with 
        paragraph (1);
            (C) ensure that information relating to agency progress 
        towards meeting the Government-wide data center consolidation 
        and optimization metrics is made available in a timely manner 
        to the general public;
            (D) review the inventories and strategies submitted under 
        paragraph (1) to determine whether they are comprehensive and 
        complete;
            (E) monitor the implementation of the data center strategy 
        of each covered agency that is required under paragraph 
        (1)(A)(ii);
            (F) update, on an annual basis, the cumulative cost savings 
        realized through the implementation of the FDCCI; and
            (G) establish metrics applicable to the consolidation and 
        optimization of data centers Government-wide, including metrics 
        with respect to--
                (i) costs;
                (ii) efficiencies, including, at a minimum, server 
            efficiency; and
                (iii) any other factors the Administrator considers 
            appropriate.
        (3) Cost saving goal and updates for congress.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall develop, and 
        make publicly available, a goal, broken down by year, for the 
        amount of planned cost savings and optimization improvements 
        achieved through the FDCCI during the period beginning on the 
        date of the enactment of this Act and ending on the date set 
        forth in subsection (e).
            (B) Annual update.--
                (i) In general.--Not later than one year after the date 
            on which the goal described in subparagraph (A) is made 
            publicly available, and each year thereafter, the 
            Administrator shall aggregate the reported cost savings of 
            each covered agency and optimization improvements achieved 
            to date through the FDCCI and compare the savings to the 
            projected cost savings and optimization improvements 
            developed under subparagraph (A).
                (ii) Update for congress.--The goal required to be 
            developed under subparagraph (A) shall be submitted to 
            Congress and shall be accompanied by a statement 
            describing--

                    (I) the extent to which each covered agency has 
                developed and submitted a comprehensive inventory under 
                paragraph (1)(A)(i), including an analysis of the 
                inventory that details specific numbers, use, and 
                efficiency level of data centers in each inventory; and
                    (II) the extent to which each covered agency has 
                submitted a comprehensive strategy that addresses the 
                items listed in paragraph (1)(A)(ii).

        (4) GAO review.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and each year thereafter, the 
        Comptroller General of the United States shall review and 
        verify the quality and completeness of the inventory and 
        strategy of each covered agency required under paragraph 
        (1)(A).
            (B) Report.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
        shall, on an annual basis, publish a report on each review 
        conducted under subparagraph (A).
    (c) Ensuring Cybersecurity Standards for Data Center Consolidation 
and Cloud Computing.--
        (1) In general.--In implementing a data center consolidation 
    and optimization strategy under this section, a covered agency 
    shall do so in a manner that is consistent with Federal guidelines 
    on cloud computing security, including--
            (A) applicable provisions found within the Federal Risk and 
        Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP); and
            (B) guidance published by the National Institute of 
        Standards and Technology.
        (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
    construed to limit the ability of the Director of the Office of 
    Management and Budget to update or modify the Federal guidelines on 
    cloud computing security.
    (d) Waiver of Requirements.--The Director of National Intelligence 
and the Secretary of Defense, or their respective designee, may waive 
the applicability to any national security system, as defined in 
section 3542 of title 44, United States Code, of any provision of this 
section if the Director of National Intelligence or the Secretary of 
Defense, or their respective designee, determines that such waiver is 
in the interest of national security. Not later than 30 days after 
making a waiver under this subsection, the Director of National 
Intelligence or the Secretary of Defense, or their respective designee, 
shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform and the Permanent Select 
Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives a statement 
describing the waiver and the reasons for the waiver.
    (e) Sunset.--This section is repealed effective on October 1, 2018.
    SEC. 835. EXPANSION OF TRAINING AND USE OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
      CADRES.
    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to ensure timely 
progress by Federal agencies toward developing, strengthening, and 
deploying information technology acquisition cadres consisting of 
personnel with highly specialized skills in information technology 
acquisition, including program and project managers.
    (b) Strategic Planning.--
        (1) In general.--The Administrator for Federal Procurement 
    Policy, in consultation with the Administrator for E-Government and 
    Information Technology, shall work with Federal agencies, other 
    than the Department of Defense, to update their acquisition human 
    capital plans that were developed pursuant to the October 27, 2009, 
    guidance issued by the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy 
    in furtherance of section 1704(g) of title 41, United States Code 
    (originally enacted as section 869 of the Duncan Hunter National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 
    122 Stat. 4553)), to address how the agencies are meeting their 
    human capital requirements to support the timely and effective 
    acquisition of information technology.
        (2) Elements.--The updates required by paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted to the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy and 
    shall address, at a minimum, each Federal agency's consideration or 
    use of the following procedures:
            (A) Development of an information technology acquisition 
        cadre within the agency or use of memoranda of understanding 
        with other agencies that have such cadres or personnel with 
        experience relevant to the agency's information technology 
        acquisition needs.
            (B) Development of personnel assigned to information 
        technology acquisitions, including cross-functional training of 
        acquisition information technology and program personnel.
            (C) Use of the specialized career path for information 
        technology program managers as designated by the Office of 
        Personnel Management and plans for strengthening information 
        technology program management.
            (D) Use of direct hire authority.
            (E) Conduct of peer reviews.
            (F) Piloting of innovative approaches to information 
        technology acquisition workforce development, such as industry-
        government rotations.
    (c) Federal Agency Defined.--In this section, the term ``Federal 
agency'' means each agency listed in section 901(b) of title 31, United 
States Code.
    SEC. 836. MAXIMIZING THE BENEFIT OF THE FEDERAL STRATEGIC SOURCING 
      INITIATIVE.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy shall prescribe 
regulations providing that when the Federal Government makes a purchase 
of services and supplies offered under the Federal Strategic Sourcing 
Initiative (managed by the Office of Federal Procurement Policy) but 
such Initiative is not used, the contract file for the purchase shall 
include a brief analysis of the comparative value, including price and 
nonprice factors, between the services and supplies offered under such 
Initiative and services and supplies offered under the source or 
sources used for the purchase.
    SEC. 837. GOVERNMENTWIDE SOFTWARE PURCHASING PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--The Administrator of General Services shall 
identify and develop a strategic sourcing initiative to enhance 
Governmentwide acquisition, shared use, and dissemination of software, 
as well as compliance with end user license agreements.
    (b) Governmentwide User License Agreement.--The Administrator, in 
developing the initiative under subsection (a), shall allow for the 
purchase of a license agreement that is available for use by all 
Executive agencies (as defined in section 105 of title 5, United States 
Code) as one user to the maximum extent practicable and as appropriate.

               Subtitle E--Never Contract With the Enemy

    SEC. 841. PROHIBITION ON PROVIDING FUNDS TO THE ENEMY.
    (a) Identification of Persons and Entities.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall, in conjunction with the Director of National 
Intelligence and in consultation with the Secretary of State, establish 
in each covered combatant command a program to identify persons and 
entities within the area of responsibility of such command that--
        (1) provide funds, including goods and services, received under 
    a covered contract, grant, or cooperative agreement of an executive 
    agency directly or indirectly to a covered person or entity; or
        (2) fail to exercise due diligence to ensure that none of the 
    funds, including goods and services, received under a covered 
    contract, grant, or cooperative agreement of an executive agency 
    are provided directly or indirectly to a covered person or entity.
    (b) Notice of Identified Persons and Entities.--
        (1) Notice.--Upon the identification of a person or entity as 
    being described by subsection (a), the head of the executive agency 
    concerned (or the designee of such head) and the commander of the 
    covered combatant command concerned (or the specified deputies of 
    the commander) shall be notified, in writing, of such 
    identification of the person or entity.
        (2) Responsive actions.--Upon receipt of a notice under 
    paragraph (1), the head of the executive agency concerned (or the 
    designee of such head) and the commander of the covered combatant 
    command concerned (or the specified deputies of the commander) may 
    notify the heads of contracting activities, or other appropriate 
    officials of the agency or command, in writing of such 
    identification.
        (3) Making of notifications.--Any written notification pursuant 
    to this subsection shall be made in accordance with procedures 
    established to implement the revisions of regulations required by 
    this section.
    (c) Authority to Terminate or Void Contracts, Grants, and 
Cooperative Agreements and to Restrict Future Award.--Not later than 
270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal 
Acquisition Regulation, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Supplement, and the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost 
Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards shall be revised 
to provide that, upon notice from the head of an executive agency (or 
the designee of such head) or the commander of a covered combatant 
command (or the specified deputies of the commander) pursuant to 
subsection (b), the head of contracting activity of an executive 
agency, or other appropriate official, may do the following:
        (1) Restrict the award of contracts, grants, or cooperative 
    agreements of the executive agency concerned upon a written 
    determination by the head of contracting activity or other 
    appropriate official that the contract, grant, or cooperative 
    agreement would provide funds received under such contract, grant, 
    or cooperative agreement directly or indirectly to a covered person 
    or entity.
        (2) Terminate for default any contract, grant, or cooperative 
    agreement of the executive agency concerned upon a written 
    determination by the head of contracting activity or other 
    appropriate official that the contractor, or the recipient of the 
    grant or cooperative agreement, has failed to exercise due 
    diligence to ensure that none of the funds received under the 
    contract, grant, or cooperative agreement are provided directly or 
    indirectly to a covered person or entity.
        (3) Void in whole or in part any contract, grant, or 
    cooperative agreement of the executive agency concerned upon a 
    written determination by the head of contracting activity or other 
    appropriate official that the contract, grant, or cooperative 
    agreement provides funds directly or indirectly to a covered person 
    or entity.
    (d) Clause.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the 
    Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, and the Uniform 
    Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit 
    Requirements for Federal Awards shall be revised to require that--
            (A) the clause described in paragraph (2) shall be included 
        in each covered contract, grant, and cooperative agreement of 
        an executive agency that is awarded on or after the date that 
        is 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
            (B) to the maximum extent practicable, each covered 
        contract, grant, and cooperative agreement of an executive 
        agency that is awarded before the date of the enactment of this 
        Act shall be modified to include the clause described in 
        paragraph (2).
        (2) Clause described.--The clause described in this paragraph 
    is a clause that--
            (A) requires the contractor, or the recipient of the grant 
        or cooperative agreement, to exercise due diligence to ensure 
        that none of the funds, including goods and services, received 
        under the contract, grant, or cooperative agreement are 
        provided directly or indirectly to a covered person or entity; 
        and
            (B) notifies the contractor, or the recipient of the grant 
        or cooperative agreement, of the authority of the head of 
        contracting activity, or other appropriate official, to 
        terminate or void the contract, grant, or cooperative 
        agreement, in whole or in part, as provided in subsection (c).
        (3) Treatment as void.--For purposes of this section:
            (A) A contract, grant, or cooperative agreement that is 
        void is unenforceable as contrary to public policy.
            (B) A contract, grant, or cooperative agreement that is 
        void in part is unenforceable as contrary to public policy with 
        regard to a segregable task or effort under the contract, 
        grant, or cooperative agreement.
        (4) Public comment.--The President shall ensure that the 
    process for revising regulations required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include an opportunity for public comment, including an opportunity 
    for comment on standards of due diligence required by this section.
    (e) Requirements Following Contract Actions.--Not later than 270 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Federal 
Acquisition Regulation, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Supplement, and the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost 
Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards shall be revised 
as follows:
        (1) To require that any head of contracting activity, or other 
    appropriate official, taking an action under subsection (c) to 
    terminate, void, or restrict a contract, grant, or cooperative 
    agreement notify in writing the contractor or recipient of the 
    grant or cooperative agreement, as applicable, of the action.
        (2) To permit the contractor or recipient of a grant or 
    cooperative agreement subject to an action taken under subsection 
    (c) to terminate or void the contract, grant, or cooperative 
    agreement, as the case may be, an opportunity to challenge the 
    action by requesting an administrative review of the action under 
    the procedures of the executive agency concerned not later than 30 
    days after receipt of notice of the action.
    (f) Annual Review; Protection of Classified Information.--
        (1) Annual review.--The Secretary of Defense, in conjunction 
    with the Director of National Intelligence and in consultation with 
    the Secretary of State shall, on an annual basis, review the lists 
    of persons and entities previously covered by a notice under 
    subsection (b) as having been identified as described by subsection 
    (a) in order to determine whether or not such persons and entities 
    continue to warrant identification as described by subsection (a). 
    If a determination is made pursuant to such a review that a person 
    or entity no longer warrants identification as described by 
    subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall notify the head of 
    the executive agency concerned (or the designee of such head) and 
    the commander of the covered combatant command concerned (or the 
    specified deputies of the commander) in writing of such 
    determination.
        (2) Protection of classified information.--Classified 
    information relied upon to make an identification in accordance 
    with subsection (a) may not be disclosed to a contractor or a 
    recipient of a grant or cooperative agreement with respect to which 
    an action is taken pursuant to the authority provided in subsection 
    (c), or to their representatives, in the absence of a protective 
    order issued by a court of competent jurisdiction established under 
    Article I or Article III of the Constitution of the United States 
    that specifically addresses the conditions upon which such 
    classified information may be so disclosed.
    (g) Delegation of Certain Responsibilities.--
        (1) Combatant command responsibilities.--The commander of a 
    covered combatant command may delegate the responsibilities in this 
    section to any deputies of the commander specified by the commander 
    for purposes of this section. Any delegation of responsibilities 
    under this paragraph shall be made in writing.
        (2) Nondelegation of responsibility for certain actions.--The 
    authority provided by subsection (c) to terminate, void, or 
    restrict contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements, in whole or 
    in part, may not be delegated below the level of head of 
    contracting activity, or equivalent official for purposes of grants 
    or cooperative agreements.
    (h) Additional Responsibilities of Executive Agencies.--
        (1) Sharing of information on supporters of the enemy.--The 
    Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Director of 
    the Office of Management and Budget, carry out a program through 
    which agency components may provide information to heads of 
    executive agencies (or the designees of such heads) and the 
    commanders of the covered combatant commands (or the specified 
    deputies of the commanders) relating to persons or entities who may 
    be providing funds, including goods and services, received under 
    contracts, grants, or cooperative agreements of the executive 
    agencies directly or indirectly to a covered person or entity. The 
    program shall be designed to facilitate and encourage the sharing 
    of risk and threat information between executive agencies and the 
    covered combatant commands.
        (2) Inclusion of information on contract actions in fapiis and 
    other systems.--Upon the termination, voiding, or restriction of a 
    contract, grant, or cooperative agreement of an executive agency 
    under subsection (c), the head of contracting activity of the 
    executive agency shall provide for the inclusion in the Federal 
    Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS), or 
    other formal system of records on contractors or entities, of 
    appropriate information on the termination, voiding, or 
    restriction, as the case may be, of the contract, grant, or 
    cooperative agreement.
        (3) Reports.--The head of contracting activity that receives a 
    notice pursuant to subsection (b) shall submit to the head of the 
    executive agency concerned (or the designee of such head) and the 
    commander of the covered combatant command concerned (or specified 
    deputies) a report on the action, if any, taken by the head of 
    contracting activity pursuant to subsection (c), including a 
    determination not to terminate, void, or restrict the contract, 
    grant, or cooperative agreement as otherwise authorized by 
    subsection (c).
    (i) Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 1 of 2016, 2017, and 
    2018, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
    submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
    use of the authorities in this section in the preceding calendar 
    year, including the following:
            (A) For each instance in which an executive agency 
        exercised the authority to terminate, void, or restrict a 
        contract, grant, and cooperative agreement pursuant to 
        subsection (c), based on a notification under subsection (b), 
        the following:
                (i) The executive agency taking such action.
                (ii) An explanation of the basis for the action taken.
                (iii) The value of the contract, grant, or cooperative 
            agreement voided or terminated.
                (iv) The value of all contracts, grants, or cooperative 
            agreements of the executive agency in force with the person 
            or entity concerned at the time the contract, grant, or 
            cooperative agreement was terminated or voided.
            (B) For each instance in which an executive agency did not 
        exercise the authority to terminate, void, or restrict a 
        contract, grant, and cooperative agreement pursuant to 
        subsection (c), based on a notification under subsection (b), 
        the following:
                (i) The executive agency concerned.
                (ii) An explanation of the basis for not taking the 
            action.
        (2) Form.--Any report under this subsection may, at the 
    election of the Director--
            (A) be submitted in unclassified form, but with a 
        classified annex; or
            (B) be submitted in classified form.
    (j) Inapplicability to Certain Contracts, Grants, and Cooperative 
Agreements.--The provisions of this section do not apply to contracts, 
grants, and cooperative agreements that are performed entirely inside 
the United States.
    (k) National Security Exception.--Nothing in this section shall 
apply to the authorized intelligence or law enforcement activities of 
the United States Government.
    (l) Construction With Other Authorities.--Except as provided in 
subsection (m), the authorities in this section shall be in addition 
to, and not to the exclusion of, any other authorities available to 
executive agencies to implement policies and purposes similar to those 
set forth in this section.
    (m) Coordination With Current Authorities.--
        (1) Repeal of superseded authority related to centcom.--
    Effective 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
    section 841 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
    Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1510; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) 
    is repealed.
        (2) Repeal of superseded authority related to department of 
    defense.--Effective 270 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, section 831 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 810; 10 U.S.C. 2302 
    note) is repealed.
        (3) Use of superseded authorities in implementation of 
    requirements.--In providing for the implementation of the 
    requirements of this section by the Department of Defense, the 
    Secretary of Defense may use and modify for that purpose the 
    regulations and procedures established for purposes of the 
    implementation of the requirements of section 841 of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 and section 831 of 
    the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014.
    (n) Sunset.--The provisions of this section shall cease to be 
effective on December 31, 2019.
    SEC. 842. ADDITIONAL ACCESS TO RECORDS.
    (a) Contracts, Grants, and Cooperative Agreements.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, applicable regulations shall be revised to 
    provide that, except as provided under subsection (c)(1), the 
    clause described in paragraph (2) may, as appropriate, be included 
    in each covered contract, grant, and cooperative agreement of an 
    executive agency that is awarded on or after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act.
        (2) Clause.--The clause described in this paragraph is a clause 
    authorizing the head of the executive agency concerned, upon a 
    written determination pursuant to paragraph (3), to examine any 
    records of the contractor, the recipient of a grant or cooperative 
    agreement, or any subcontractor or subgrantee under such contract, 
    grant, or cooperative agreement to the extent necessary to ensure 
    that funds, including goods and services, available under the 
    contract, grant, or cooperative agreement are not provided directly 
    or indirectly to a covered person or entity.
        (3) Written determination.--The authority to examine records 
    pursuant to the contract clause described in paragraph (2) may be 
    exercised only upon a written determination by the contracting 
    officer, or comparable official responsible for a grant or 
    cooperative agreement, upon a finding by the commander of a covered 
    combatant command (or the specified deputies of the commander) or 
    the head of an executive agency (or the designee of such head) that 
    there is reason to believe that funds, including goods and 
    services, available under the contract, grant, or cooperative 
    agreement concerned may have been provided directly or indirectly 
    to a covered person or entity.
        (4) Flowdown.--A clause described in paragraph (2) may also be 
    included in any subcontract or subgrant under a covered contract, 
    grant, or cooperative agreement if the subcontract or subgrant has 
    an estimated value in excess of $50,000.
    (b) Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 1 of 2016, 2017, and 
    2018, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
    submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
    use of the authority provided by this section in the preceding 
    calendar year.
        (2) Elements.--Each report under this subsection shall 
    identify, for the calendar year covered by such report, each 
    instance in which an executive agency exercised the authority 
    provided under this section to examine records, explain the basis 
    for the action taken, and summarize the results of any examination 
    of records so undertaken.
        (3) Form.--Any report under this subsection may be submitted in 
    classified form.
    (c) Relationship to Existing Authorities Applicable to CENTCOM.--
        (1) Applicability.--This section shall not apply to contracts, 
    grants, or cooperative agreements covered under section 842 of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 
    112-81; 125 Stat. 1513; 10 U.S.C. 2313 note).
        (2) Extension of current authorities applicable to centcom.--
    Section 842(d)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1514; 10 U.S.C. 2313 
    note) is amended by striking ``date of the enactment of this Act'' 
    and inserting ``date of the enactment of the Carl Levin and Howard 
    P. `Buck' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2015''.
    SEC. 843. DEFINITIONS.
    In this subtitle:
        (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
    committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Oversight and Government Reform, the Committee on Foreign 
        Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Contingency operation.--The term ``contingency operation'' 
    has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(13) of title 10, 
    United States Code.
        (3) Contract.--The term ``contract'' includes a contract for 
    commercial items but is not limited to a contract for commercial 
    items.
        (4) Covered combatant command.--The term ``covered combatant 
    command'' means the following:
            (A) The United States Africa Command.
            (B) The United States Central Command.
            (C) The United States European Command.
            (D) The United States Pacific Command.
            (E) The United States Southern Command.
            (F) The United States Transportation Command.
        (5) Covered contract, grant, or cooperative agreement 
    defined.--The term ``covered contract, grant, or cooperative 
    agreement'' means a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement with 
    an estimated value in excess of $50,000 that is performed outside 
    the United States, including its possessions and territories, in 
    support of a contingency operation in which members of the Armed 
    Forces are actively engaged in hostilities.
        (6) Covered person or entity.--The term ``covered person or 
    entity'' means a person or entity that is actively opposing United 
    States or coalition forces involved in a contingency operation in 
    which members of the Armed Forces are actively engaged in 
    hostilities.
        (7) Executive agency.--The term ``executive agency'' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 133 of title 41, United States 
    Code.
        (8) Head of contracting activity.--The term ``head of 
    contracting activity'' has the meaning described in section 1.601 
    of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
        (9) Uniform administrative requirements, cost principles, and 
    audit requirements for federal awards.--The term ``Uniform 
    Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit 
    Requirements for Federal Awards'' means the guidance issued by the 
    Office of Management and Budget in part 200 of chapter II of title 
    2 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

    SEC. 851. RAPID ACQUISITION AND DEPLOYMENT PROCEDURES FOR UNITED 
      STATES SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND.
    (a) Authority to Establish Procedures.--The Secretary may prescribe 
procedures for the rapid acquisition and deployment of items for the 
United States Special Operations Command that are currently under 
development by the Department of Defense or available from the 
commercial sector and are--
        (1) urgently needed to react to an enemy threat or to respond 
    to significant and urgent safety situations;
        (2) needed to avoid significant risk of loss of life or mission 
    failure; or
        (3) needed to avoid collateral damage risk where the absence of 
    collateral damage is a requirement for mission success.
    (b) Issues to Be Addressed.--The procedures prescribed under 
subsection (a) shall include the following:
        (1) A process for streamlined communication between the 
    Commander of the United States Special Operations Command and the 
    acquisition and research and development communities, including--
            (A) a process for the Commander to communicate needs to the 
        acquisition community and the research and development 
        community; and
            (B) a process for the acquisition community and the 
        research and development community to propose items that meet 
        the needs communicated by the Commander.
        (2) Procedures for demonstrating, rapidly acquiring, and 
    deploying items proposed pursuant to paragraph (1)(B), including--
            (A) a process for demonstrating performance and evaluating 
        for current operational purposes the existing capability of an 
        item;
            (B) a process for developing an acquisition and funding 
        strategy for the deployment of an item; and
            (C) a process for making deployment determinations based on 
        information obtained pursuant to subparagraphs (A) and (B).
    (c) Testing Requirement.--
        (1) In general.--The process for demonstrating performance and 
    evaluating for current operational purposes the existing capability 
    of an item prescribed under subsection (b)(2)(A) shall include--
            (A) an operational assessment in accordance with expedited 
        procedures prescribed by the Director of Operational Testing 
        and Evaluation; and
            (B) a requirement to provide information to the deployment 
        decision-making authority about any deficiency of the item in 
        meeting the original requirements for the item (as stated in an 
        operational requirements document or similar document).
        (2) Deficiency not a determining factor.--The process may not 
    include a requirement for any deficiency of an item to be the 
    determining factor in deciding whether to deploy the item.
        (3) Additional requirement in case of deficiency.--In the case 
    of any deficiency of an item, a decision to deploy the item may be 
    made only if the Commander of the United States Special Operations 
    Command determines that, for reasons of national security, the 
    deficiency of the item is acceptable.
    (d) Limitation.--The quantity of items of a system procured using 
the procedures prescribed pursuant to this section may not exceed the 
number established for low-rate initial production for the system. Any 
such items shall be counted for purposes of the number of items of the 
system that may be procured through low-rate initial production.
    (e) Annual Funding Limitation.--Of the funds available to the 
Commander of the United States Special Operations Command in any given 
fiscal year, not more than $50,000,000 may be used to procure items 
under this section.
    (f) Relationship to Other Rapid Acquisition Authority.--The 
Commander of the United States Special Operations Command may not use 
the authority under this section at the same time the Commander uses 
the authority under section 806 of the Bob Stump National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 10 U.S.C. 
2302 note).
    (g) Congressional Notifications.--
        (1) Notification before procedures go into effect.--The 
    Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional defense 
    committees at least 30 days before the procedures prescribed 
    pursuant to this section are made effective.
        (2) Notification after use of procedures.--The Secretary of 
    Defense shall notify the congressional defense committees not later 
    than 48 hours after each use of the procedures prescribed pursuant 
    to this section.
    SEC. 852. CONSIDERATION OF CORROSION CONTROL IN PRELIMINARY DESIGN 
      REVIEW.
    The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
Logistics shall ensure that Department of Defense Instruction 5000.02 
and other applicable guidance require full consideration, during 
preliminary design review for a product, of metals, materials, and 
technologies that effectively prevent or control corrosion over the 
life cycle of the product.
    SEC. 853. PROGRAM MANAGER DEVELOPMENT REPORT.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on enhancing the role of 
Department of Defense civilian and military program managers in 
developing and carrying out defense acquisition programs.
    (b) Matters to Be Addressed.--The report required by this section 
shall address, at a minimum, recommendations for--
        (1) enhancing training and educational opportunities for 
    program managers;
        (2) increasing emphasis on the mentoring of current and future 
    program managers by experienced senior executives and program 
    managers within the Department;
        (3) improving career paths and career opportunities for program 
    managers;
        (4) creating additional incentives for the recruitment and 
    retention of highly qualified individuals to serve as program 
    managers;
        (5) improving required resource levels and support (including 
    systems engineering expertise, cost estimating expertise, and 
    software development expertise) for program managers;
        (6) improving means of collecting and disseminating best 
    practices and lessons learned to enhance program management across 
    the Department;
        (7) creating common templates and tools to support improved 
    data gathering and analysis for program management and oversight 
    purposes;
        (8) increasing accountability of program managers for the 
    results of defense acquisition programs;
        (9) enhancing monetary and nonmonetary awards for successful 
    accomplishment of program objectives by program managers; and
        (10) improving program manager tenure with the goal of 
    maintaining both civilian and military program managers in their 
    positions for a sufficient period of time to ensure program 
    stability and consistency of leadership, including consideration of 
    tying program manager tenure to milestone decision points for major 
    defense acquisition programs and major automated information system 
    programs.
    SEC. 854. OPERATIONAL METRICS FOR JOINT INFORMATION ENVIRONMENT AND 
      SUPPORTING ACTIVITIES.
    (a) Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, shall issue 
guidance for measuring the operational effectiveness and efficiency of 
the Joint Information Environment within the military departments, 
Defense Agencies, and combatant commands. The guidance shall include a 
definition of specific metrics for data collection, and a requirement 
for each military department, Defense Agency, and combatant command to 
regularly collect and assess data on such operational effectiveness and 
efficiency and report the results to such Chief Information Officer on 
a regular basis.
    (b) Baseline Architecture.--The Chief Information Officer of the 
Department of Defense shall identify a baseline architecture for the 
Joint Information Environment by identifying and reporting to the 
Secretary of Defense any information technology programs or other 
investments that support that architecture.
    (c) Joint Information Environment Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``Joint Information Environment'' means the initiative of the 
Department of Defense to modernize the information technology networks 
and systems within the Department.
    SEC. 855. COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS FOR SENIOR DEPARTMENT OF 
      DEFENSE OFFICIALS SEEKING EMPLOYMENT WITH DEFENSE CONTRACTORS.
     Section 847(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 243; 10 U.S.C. 1701 
note) is amended by inserting after ``repository'' the following: 
``maintained by the General Counsel of the Department''.
    SEC. 856. ENHANCEMENT OF WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION FOR EMPLOYEES OF 
      GRANTEES.
    (a) Addition of Reference to Grantee.--Section 2409(a)(1) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``or subcontractor'' and 
inserting ``, subcontractor, grantee, or subgrantee''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 2409(g) of such title is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (4), by striking ``or a grant''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(7) The term `grantee' means a person awarded a grant with an 
    agency.''.
    SEC. 857. PROHIBITION ON REIMBURSEMENT OF CONTRACTORS FOR 
      CONGRESSIONAL INVESTIGATIONS AND INQUIRIES.
    Section 2324(e)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(Q) Costs incurred by a contractor in connection with a 
    congressional investigation or inquiry into an issue that is the 
    subject matter of a proceeding resulting in a disposition as 
    described in subsection (k)(2).''.
    SEC. 858. REQUIREMENT TO PROVIDE PHOTOVOLTAIC DEVICES FROM UNITED 
      STATES SOURCES.
    (a) Contract Requirement.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure 
that each covered contract includes a provision requiring that any 
photovoltaic device installed under the contract be manufactured in the 
United States substantially all from articles, materials, or supplies 
mined, produced, or manufactured in the United States, unless the head 
of the department or independent establishment concerned determines, on 
a case-by-case basis, that the inclusion of such requirement is 
inconsistent with the public interest or involves unreasonable costs, 
subject to exceptions provided in the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 
U.S.C. 2501 et seq.) or otherwise provided by law.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Covered contract.--The term ``covered contract'' means a 
    contract awarded by the Department of Defense that provides for a 
    photovoltaic device to be--
            (A) installed inside the United States on Department of 
        Defense property or in a facility owned by the Department of 
        Defense; or
            (B) reserved for the exclusive use of the Department of 
        Defense in the United States for the full economic life of the 
        device.
        (2) Photovoltaic device.--The term ``photovoltaic device'' 
    means a device that converts light directly into electricity 
    through a solid-state, semiconductor process.
    SEC. 859. REIMBURSEMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR ASSISTANCE 
      PROVIDED TO NONGOVERNMENTAL ENTERTAINMENT-ORIENTED MEDIA 
      PRODUCERS.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 134 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2264. Reimbursement for assistance provided to nongovernmental 
    entertainment-oriented media producers
    ``(a) In General.--There shall be credited to the applicable 
appropriations account or fund from which the expenses described in 
subsection (b) were charged any amounts received by the Department of 
Defense as reimbursement for such expenses.
    ``(b) Description of Expenses.--The expenses referred to in 
subsection (a) are any expenses--
        ``(1) incurred by the Department of Defense as a result of 
    providing assistance to a nongovernmental entertainment-oriented 
    media producer;
        ``(2) for which the Department of Defense requires 
    reimbursement under section 9701 of title 31 or any other provision 
    of law; and
        ``(3) for which the Department of Defense received 
    reimbursement after the date of the enactment of the Carl Levin and 
    Howard P. `Buck' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2015.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``2264. Reimbursement for assistance provided to nongovernmental 
          entertainment-oriented media producers.''.
    SEC. 860. THREE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT URGENT 
      OPERATIONAL NEEDS FUND.
    Section 2216a(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2015'' and inserting ``September 30, 2018''.

      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

              Subtitle A--Department of Defense Management

Sec. 901. Reorganization of the Office of the Secretary of Defense and 
          Related Matters.
Sec. 902. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve 
          Affairs.
Sec. 903. Requirement for assessment of options to modify the number of 
          combatant commands.
Sec. 904. Office of Net Assessment.
Sec. 905. Periodic review of Department of Defense management 
          headquarters.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 911. Modifications of biennial strategic workforce plan relating to 
          senior management, functional, and technical workforces of the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 912. Repeal of extension of Comptroller General report on 
          inventory.
Sec. 913. Extension of authority to waive reimbursement of costs of 
          activities for nongovernmental personnel at Department of 
          Defense regional centers for security studies.
Sec. 914. Pilot program to establish Government lodging program.
Sec. 915. Single standard mileage reimbursement rate for privately owned 
          automobiles of Government employees and members of the 
          uniformed services.
Sec. 916. Modifications to requirements for accounting for members of 
          the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian employees 
          listed as missing.

              Subtitle A--Department of Defense Management

    SEC. 901. REORGANIZATION OF THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE 
      AND RELATED MATTERS.
    (a) Conversion of Position of Deputy Chief Management Officer to 
Position of Under Secretary of Defense for Business Management and 
Information.--
        (1) In general.--Effective on February 1, 2017, section 132a of 
    title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 132a. Under Secretary of Defense for Business Management and 
    Information
    ``(a) There is an Under Secretary of Defense for Business 
Management and Information, appointed from civilian life by the 
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    ``(b) The Under Secretary also serves as--
        ``(1) the Performance Improvement Officer of the Department of 
    Defense; and
        ``(2) the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
    Defense.
    ``(c) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the 
Secretary of Defense and the Deputy Secretary of Defense in the role of 
the Deputy Secretary as the Chief Management Officer of the Department 
of Defense, the Under Secretary of Defense for Business Management and 
Information shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as the 
Secretary of Defense may prescribe, including the following:
        ``(1) Assisting the Deputy Secretary of Defense in the Deputy 
    Secretary's role as the Chief Management Officer of the Department 
    of Defense under section 132(c) of this title.
        ``(2) Supervising the management of the business operations of 
    the Department of Defense and adjudicating issues and conflicts in 
    functional domain business policies.
        ``(3) Establishing business strategic planning and performance 
    management policies and measures and developing the Department of 
    Defense Strategic Management Plan.
        ``(4) Establishing business information technology portfolio 
    policies and overseeing investment management of that portfolio for 
    the Department of Defense.
        ``(5) Establishing end-to-end business process and policies for 
    establishing, eliminating, and implementing business standards, and 
    managing the Business Enterprise Architecture.
        ``(6) Supervising the business process reengineering of the 
    functional domains of the Department in order to support investment 
    planning and technology development decision making for information 
    technology systems.
    ``(d) The Under Secretary of Defense for Business Management and 
Information takes precedence in the Department of Defense after the 
Secretary of Defense and the Deputy Secretary of Defense.''.
        (2) Placement in the office of the secretary of defense.--
    Effective on the effective date specified in paragraph (1), section 
    131(b)(2) of such title is amended--
            (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (E) as 
        subparagraphs (B) through (F), respectively; and
            (B) by inserting before subparagraph (B) (as so 
        redesignated) the following new subparagraph (A):
            ``(A) The Under Secretary of Defense for Business 
        Management and Information.''.
    (b) Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense.--
        (1) Statutory establishment of position.--Chapter 4 of title 
    10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 141 
    the following new section:
``Sec. 142. Chief Information Officer
    ``(a) There is a Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
Defense.
    ``(b)(1) The Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
Defense--
        ``(A) is the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
    Defense for the purposes of sections 3506(a)(2) and 3544(a)(3) of 
    title 44;
        ``(B) has the responsibilities and duties specified in section 
    11315 of title 40;
        ``(C) has the responsibilities specified for the Chief 
    Information Officer in sections 2222, 2223(a), and 2224 of this 
    title; and
        ``(D) exercises authority, direction, and control over the 
    Information Assurance Directorate of the National Security Agency.
    ``(2) The Chief Information Officer shall perform such additional 
duties and exercise such powers as the Secretary of Defense may 
prescribe.
    ``(c) The Chief Information Officer takes precedence in the 
Department of Defense with the officials serving in positions specified 
in section 131(b)(4) of this title. The officials serving in positions 
specified in section 131(b)(4) and the Chief Information Officer of the 
Department of Defense take precedence among themselves in the order 
prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.''.
        (2) Placement in the office of the secretary of defense.--
    Section 131(b) of such title, as amended by subsection (a)(2), is 
    further amended--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (5, (6), (7), and (8) as 
        paragraphs (6), (7), (8), and (9), respectively; and
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph (5):
        ``(5) The Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
    Defense.''.
    (c) Repeal of Requirement for Defense Business System Management 
Committee.--Section 186 of title 10, United States Code, is repealed.
    (d) Assignment of Responsibility for Defense Business Systems.--
Section 2222 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by inserting ``and'' at the end of paragraph (1);
            (B) by striking ``; and'' at the end of paragraph (2) and 
        inserting a period; and
            (C) by striking paragraph (3);
        (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``Defense Business 
    Systems Management Committee'' and inserting ``investment review 
    board established under subsection (g)''; and
        (3) in subsection (g)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``, not later than March 
        15, 2012,'';
            (B) in paragraph (2)(C), by striking ``each'' the first 
        place it appears and inserting ``the''; and
            (C) in paragraph (2)(F), by striking ``and the Defense 
        Business Systems Management Committee, as required by section 
        186(c) of this title,''.
    (e) Deadline for Establishment of Investment Review Board and 
Investment Management Process.--The investment review board and 
investment management process required by section 2222(g) of title 10, 
United States Code, as amended by subsection (d)(3), shall be 
established not later than March 15, 2015.
    (f) Redesignation of Assistant Secretary of Defense for Operational 
Energy Plans and Programs To Reflect Merger With Deputy Under Secretary 
of Defense for Installations and Environment.--Paragraph (9) of section 
138(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(9) One of the Assistant Secretaries is the Assistant Secretary 
of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment. The Assistant 
Secretary--
        ``(A) is the principal advisor to the Secretary of Defense and 
    the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
    Logistics on matters relating to energy, installations, and 
    environment; and
        ``(B) is the principal advisor to the Secretary of Defense and 
    the Deputy Secretary of Defense regarding operational energy plans 
    and programs.''.
    (g) Clarification of Policy and Responsibilities of Assistant 
Secretary of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment.--
        (1) Transfer of policy provisions from section 138c.--Chapter 
    173 of such title is amended--
            (A) by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2926. Operational energy activities'';
            (B) by transferring paragraph (3) of section 138c(c) of 
        such title to section 2926, as added by subparagraph (A), 
        inserting such paragraph after the section heading, and 
        redesignating such paragraph as subsection (a);
            (C) in subsection (a) (as so inserted and redesignated)--
                (i) by inserting ``Alternative Fuel Activities.--'' 
            before ``The Assistant Secretary'';
                (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (E) as 
            paragraphs (1) through (5), respectively; and
                (iii) in paragraph (5) (as so redesignated), by 
            striking ``subsection (e)(4)'' and inserting ``subsection 
            (c)(4)'';
            (D) by transferring subsections (d), (e), and (f) of 
        section 138c of such title to section 2926, as added by 
        subparagraph (A), inserting those subsections after subsection 
        (a) (as transferred and redesignated by subparagraph (B)), and 
        redesignating those subsections as subsections (b), (c), and 
        (d), respectively;
            (E) in subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) of section 2926 
        (as transferred and redesignated by subparagraphs (B) and (D)), 
        by inserting ``of Defense for Installations, Energy, and 
        Environment'' after ``Assistant Secretary'' the first place it 
        appears in each such subsection;
            (F) in subsection (b) of section 2926 (as transferred and 
        redesignated by subparagraph (D)), by striking ``provide 
        guidance to, and consult with, the Secretary of Defense, the 
        Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Secretaries of the military 
        departments,'' and inserting ``make recommendations to the 
        Secretary of Defense and Deputy Secretary of Defense and 
        provide guidance to the Secretaries of the military 
        departments''; and
            (G) in subsection (c) of section 2926 (as transferred and 
        redesignated by subparagraph (D)), by amending paragraphs (4), 
        (5), and (6) to read as follows:
    ``(4) Not later than 30 days after the date on which the budget for 
a fiscal year is submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of 
title 31, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on 
the proposed budgets for that fiscal year that were reviewed by the 
Assistant Secretary under paragraph (3).
    ``(5) For each proposed budget covered by a report under paragraph 
(4) for which the certification of the Assistant Secretary under 
paragraph (3) is that the budget is not adequate for implementation of 
the strategy, the report shall include the following:
        ``(A) A copy of the report set forth in paragraph (3).
        ``(B) A discussion of the actions that the Secretary proposes 
    to take, together with any recommended legislation that the 
    Secretary considers appropriate, to address the inadequacy of the 
    proposed budget.
        ``(C) An appendix prepared by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
    of Staff describing--
            ``(i) the progress made by the Joint Requirements Oversight 
        Council in implementing the energy Key Performance Parameter; 
        and
            ``(ii) details regarding how operational energy is being 
        addressed in defense planning, scenarios, support to strategic 
        analysis, and resulting policy to improve combat capability.
        ``(D) An appendix prepared by the Under Secretary of Defense 
    for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics certifying that and 
    describing how the acquisition system is addressing operational 
    energy in the procurement process, including long-term sustainment 
    considerations, and how programs are extending combat capability as 
    a result of these considerations.
        ``(E) A separate statement of estimated expenditures and 
    requested appropriations for that fiscal year for the activities of 
    the Assistant Secretary in carrying out the duties of the Assistant 
    Secretary.
        ``(F) Any additional comments that the Secretary considers 
    appropriate regarding the inadequacy of the proposed budgets.
    ``(6) For each proposed budget covered by a report under paragraph 
(4) for which the certification of the Assistant Secretary under 
paragraph (3) is that the budget is adequate for implementation of the 
strategy, the report shall include the items set forth in subparagraphs 
(C), (D), and (E) of paragraph (5).''.
        (2) Repeal of superseded provision.--Sections 138c of such 
    title is repealed.
    (h) Amendments Relating to Certain Prescribed Assistant Secretary 
of Defense Positions.--Chapter 4 of title 10, United States Code, is 
further amended as follows:
        (1) Assistant secretary of defense for logistics and materiel 
    readiness.--Paragraph (7) of section 138(b) is amended--
            (A) in the first sentence, by inserting after ``Readiness'' 
        the following: ``, who shall be appointed from among persons 
        with an extensive background in the sustainment of major 
        weapons systems and combat support equipment'';
            (B) by striking the second sentence;
            (C) by transferring to the end of that paragraph (as 
        amended by subparagraph (B)) the text of subsection (b) of 
        section 138a;
            (D) by transferring to the end of that paragraph (as 
        amended by subparagraph (C)) the text of subsection (c) of 
        section 138a; and
            (E) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (3) in the text 
        transferred by subparagraph (C) of this paragraph as 
        subparagraphs (A) through (C), respectively.
        (2) Assistant secretary of defense for research and 
    engineering.--Paragraph (8) of such section is amended--
            (A) by striking the second sentence and inserting the text 
        of subsection (a) of section 138b;
            (B) by inserting after the text added by subparagraph (A) 
        of this paragraph the following: ``The Assistant Secretary, in 
        consultation with the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
        Developmental Test and Evaluation, shall--'';
            (C) by transferring paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection 
        (b) of section 138b to the end of that paragraph (as amended by 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B)), indenting those paragraphs 2 ems 
        from the left margin, and redesignating those paragraphs as 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;
            (D) in subparagraph (A) (as so transferred and 
        redesignated)--
                (i) by striking ``The Assistant Secretary'' and all 
            that follows through ``Test and Evaluation, shall''; and
                (ii) by striking the period at the end and inserting 
            ``; and''; and
            (E) in subparagraph (B) (as so transferred and 
        redesignated), by striking ``The Assistant Secretary'' and all 
        that follows through ``Test and Evaluation, shall''.
        (3) Assistant secretary of defense for nuclear, chemical, and 
    biological defense programs.--Paragraph (10) of such section is 
    amended--
            (A) by striking the second sentence and inserting the text 
        of subsection (b) of section 138d; and
            (B) by inserting after the text added by subparagraph (A) 
        of this paragraph the text of subsection (a) of such section 
        and in that text as so inserted--
                (i) by striking ``of Defense for Nuclear, Chemical, and 
            Biological Defense Programs''; and
                (ii) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (3) as 
            subparagraphs (A) through (C), respectively.
        (4) Repeal of separate sections.--Sections 138a, 138b, and 138d 
    are repealed.
    (i) Codification of Restrictions on Use of the Deputy Under 
Secretary of Defense Title.--
        (1) Codification.--Effective on January 1, 2015, section 
    137a(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
    the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) The officials authorized under this section shall be the only 
Deputy Under Secretaries of Defense.''.
        (2) Conforming repeal.--Effective on the effective date 
    specified in paragraph (1), section 906(a)(2) of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 
    123 Stat. 2426; 10 U.S.C. 137a note) is repealed.
    (j) Clarification of Orders of Precedence.--
        (1) Clarification relating to chief information officer.--
    Effective on the effective date specified in subsection (a)(1)--
            (A) section 131(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended--
                (i) by striking paragraph (5); and
                (ii) by redesignating paragraphs (6), (7), (8), and (9) 
            as paragraphs (5), (6), (7), and (8), respectively; and
            (B) section 142 of such title is amended by striking 
        subsection (c).
        (2) Clarification relating to other positions.--Effective on 
    the effective date specified in subsection (a)(1)--
            (A) section 133(e)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking ``and the Deputy Secretary of Defense'' and 
        inserting ``, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, and the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Business Management and Information'';
            (B) section 134(c) of such title is amended by inserting 
        ``the Under Secretary of Defense for Business Management and 
        Information,'' after ``the Deputy Secretary of Defense,'';
            (C) section 137a(d) of such title is amended in the first 
        sentence by striking all that follows after ``the military 
        departments,'' and inserting ``and the Under Secretaries of 
        Defense.''; and
            (D) section 138(d) of such title is amended by striking 
        ``the Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of 
        Defense,''.
    (k) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--Title 10, United States 
Code, is further amended as follows:
        (1) In paragraph (8) of section 131(b) (as redesignated by 
    subsection (b)(2))--
            (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (H) as 
        subparagraphs (B) through (I), respectively; and
            (B) by inserting before subparagraph (B), as redesignated 
        by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the following new 
        subparagraph (A):
            ``(A) The two Deputy Directors within the Office of the 
        Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation under 
        section 139a(c) of this title.''.
        (2) In section 132(b), by striking ``is disabled or there is no 
    Secretary of Defense'' and inserting ``dies, resigns, or is 
    otherwise unable to perform the functions and duties of the 
    office''.
        (3) In section 137a(b), by striking ``is absent or disabled'' 
    and inserting ``dies, resigns, or is otherwise unable to perform 
    the functions and duties of the office''.
        (3) Effective on the effective date specified in subsection 
    (a)(1), in section 2222--
            (A) by striking ``the Deputy Chief Management Officer of 
        the Department of Defense'' each place it appears in 
        subsections (c)(2)(E), (f)(1)(D), (f)(1)(E), (f)(2)(E), and 
        (g)(1) and inserting ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Business Management and Information''; and
            (B) in subsection (g)(3)(A)--
                (i) by striking ``Deputy Chief Management Officer'' the 
            first place it appears and inserting ``Under Secretary of 
            Defense for Business Management and Information''; and
                (ii) by striking ``Deputy Chief Management Officer'' 
            the second, third, and forth places it appears and 
            inserting ``Under Secretary''.
        (4) In section 2925(b), by striking ``Operational Energy Plans 
    and Programs'' and inserting ``Energy, Installations, and 
    Environment''.
    (l) Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 4 of 
    title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) effective on the effective date specified in subsection 
        (a)(1), by amending the item relating to section 132a to read 
        as follows:

``132a. Under Secretary of Defense for Business Management and 
          Information.'';

            (B) by striking the items relating to sections 138a, 138b, 
        138c, and 138d; and
            (C) by inserting after the item relating to section 141 the 
        following new item:

``142. Chief Information Officer.''.

        (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 7 of such 
    title is amended by striking the item relating to section 186.
        (3) The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter III of 
    chapter 173 of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
    following new item:

``2926. Operational energy activities.''.

    (m) Executive Schedule Matters.--
        (1) Executive schedule level ii.--Effective on the effective 
    date specified in subsection (a)(1), section 5313 of title 5, 
    United States Code, is amended by inserting above the item relating 
    to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
    Logistics the following:
        ``Under Secretary of Defense for Business Management and 
    Information.''.
        (2) Executive schedule level iii.--Effective on the effective 
    date specified in subsection (a)(1), section 5314 of title 5, 
    United States Code, is amended by striking ``Deputy Chief 
    Management Officer of the Department of Defense.''.
        (3) Conforming amendment to prior reduction in number of 
    assistant secretaries of defense.--Section 5315 of such title is 
    amended by striking ``Assistant Secretaries of Defense (16)'' and 
    inserting ``Assistant Secretaries of Defense (14)''.
    (n) References.--
        (1) DCMO.--After February 1, 2017, any reference to the Deputy 
    Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense in any 
    provision of law or in any rule, regulation, or other record, 
    document, or paper of the United States shall be deemed to refer to 
    the Under Secretary of Defense for Business Management and 
    Information.
        (2) ASDEIE.--Any reference to the Assistant Secretary of 
    Defense for Operational Energy Plans and Programs or to the Deputy 
    Under Secretary of Defense for Installations and Environment in any 
    provision of law or in any rule, regulation, or other paper of the 
    United States shall be deemed to refer to the Assistant Secretary 
    of Defense for Energy, Installations, and Environment.
    SEC. 902. ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR MANPOWER AND RESERVE 
      AFFAIRS.
    (a) Single Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve 
Affairs.--
        (1) Redesignation of position.--The position of Assistant 
    Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs is hereby redesignated as 
    the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve 
    Affairs. The individual serving in that position on the day before 
    the date of the enactment of this Act may continue in office after 
    that date without further appointment.
        (2) Statutory duties.--Paragraph (2) of section 138(b) of title 
    10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(2) One of the Assistant Secretaries is the Assistant Secretary 
of Defense for Manpower and Reserve Affairs. In addition to any duties 
and powers prescribed under paragraph (1), the Assistant Secretary of 
Defense for Manpower and Reserve Affairs shall have as the principal 
duty of such Assistant Secretary the overall supervision of manpower 
and reserve affairs of the Department of Defense.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Cross reference in subtitle e.--Section 10201 of such title 
    is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 10201. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve 
     Affairs
    ``As provided in section 138(b)(2) of this title, the official in 
the Department of Defense with responsibility for overall supervision 
of reserve affairs of the Department of Defense is the Assistant 
Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve Affairs.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 1007 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 10201 and inserting the following new item:

``10201. Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower and Reserve 
          Affairs.''.
    SEC. 903. REQUIREMENT FOR ASSESSMENT OF OPTIONS TO MODIFY THE 
      NUMBER OF COMBATANT COMMANDS.
    (a) Assessment Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct an 
assessment of the feasibility, advisability, and recommendations, if 
any, for reducing or increasing the number or consolidating the common 
staff functions and infrastructure of the combatant commands by the end 
of fiscal year 2020.
    (b) Matters Covered.--The assessment required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
        (1) An analysis of alternative versions of the Unified Command 
    Plan for distribution and assignment of the following:
            (A) Command responsibility and authority.
            (B) Span of control.
            (C) Headquarters structure and organization.
            (D) Staff functions, capabilities, and capacities.
        (2) A detailed analysis of each alternative that reduces or 
    increases the number or consolidates the common staff functions of 
    the combatant commands in terms of assigned personnel, resources, 
    and infrastructure, set forth separately by fiscal year, by the end 
    of fiscal year 2020.
        (3) A description of the changes to the Unified Command Plan 
    necessary to implement such reductions, increases, or 
    consolidations.
        (4) An assessment of the feasibility, advisability, risks, and 
    estimated costs associated with such reductions, increases, or 
    consolidations.
        (5) An assessment of efficiencies, potential savings from such 
    efficiencies, and operational risk, if any, that could be realized 
    by--
            (A) combining or otherwise sharing common staff or support 
        functions between two or more combatant command headquarters;
            (B) establishing a new organization to manage the combined 
        staff or support functions of two or more combatant command 
        headquarters; or
            (C) any other efficiency initiatives or arrangements that 
        the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Use of Previous Studies and Outside Experts.--In conducting the 
assessment required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense and the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff may--
        (1) use and incorporate previous plans or studies of the 
    Department of Defense; and
        (2) consult with and incorporate views of defense experts from 
    outside the Department.
    (d) Report.--
        (1) Requirement.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report containing the findings 
    and recommendations of the assessment required by subsection (a). 
    The report shall include the views of the Chairman of the Joint 
    Chiefs of Staff.
        (2) Form.--The report shall be submitted in unclassified form, 
    but may include a classified annex.
    SEC. 904. OFFICE OF NET ASSESSMENT.
    (a) Independent Office Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
establish and maintain an independent organization within the 
Department of Defense to develop and coordinate net assessments of the 
standing, trends, and future prospects of the military capabilities and 
potential of the United States in comparison with the military 
capabilities and potential of other countries or groups of countries, 
so as to identify emerging or future threats or opportunities for the 
United States.
    (b) Direct Report to the Secretary of Defense.--The head of the 
office established and maintained pursuant to subsection (a) shall 
report directly to the Secretary of Defense without intervening 
authority and may communicate views on matters within the 
responsibility of the office directly to the Secretary without 
obtaining the approval or concurrence of any other official within the 
Department of Defense.
    SEC. 905. PERIODIC REVIEW OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MANAGEMENT 
      HEADQUARTERS.
    (a) Plan Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan 
for implementing a periodic review and analysis of the Department of 
Defense personnel requirements for management headquarters.
    (b) Elements of Plan.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following for each covered organization:
        (1) A description of how current management headquarters are 
    sized and structured to execute Department of Defense assigned 
    mission requirements, including a list of the reference documents 
    and instructions that explain the mission requirements of the 
    management headquarters and how the management headquarters are 
    sized and structured.
        (2) A description of the critical capabilities and skillsets 
    required by management headquarters to execute Department of 
    Defense strategic guidance in order to fulfill mission objectives.
        (3) An identification and analysis of the factors that directly 
    or indirectly influence or contribute to the expense of Department 
    of Defense management headquarters.
        (4) An assessment of the effectiveness of current systems in 
    use to track how military, civilian, and contract personnel are 
    identified, managed, and tracked at the management headquarters.
        (5) A description of the proposed timeline, required resources 
    necessary, and Department of Defense documents, instructions, and 
    regulations that need to be updated in order to implement a 
    permanent periodic review and analysis of Department of Defense 
    personnel requirements for management headquarters.
    (c) Covered Organization Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered organization'' includes each of the following:
        (1) The Office of the Secretary of Defense.
        (2) The Joint Staff.
        (3) The Defense Agencies.
        (4) The Department of Defense field activities.
        (5) The headquarters of the combatant commands.
        (6) Headquarters, Department of the Army, including the 
    Secretary of the Army, the Office of the Chief of Staff of the 
    Army, and the Army Staff.
        (7) The major command headquarters of the Army.
        (8) The Office of the Secretary of the Navy, the Office of the 
    Chief of Naval Operations, and the Headquarters, United States 
    Marine Corps.
        (9) The major command headquarters of the Navy and the Marine 
    Corps.
        (10) Headquarters, Department of the Air Force, including the 
    Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, the Office of the Air 
    Force Chief of Staff, and the Air Staff.
        (11) The major command headquarters of the Air Force.
        (12) The National Guard Bureau.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees the plan required by subsection (a).
    (e) Amendments.--Section 904(d)(2) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 
816; 10 U.S.C. 111 note) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``2016'' and inserting ``2017'';
        (2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``, consolidations,'' 
    after ``through changes'';
        (3) in subparagraph (C)--
            (A) by inserting ``, consolidations,'' after ``through 
        changes''; and
            (B) by inserting ``, or other associated cost drivers, 
        including a discussion of how the changes, consolidations, or 
        reductions were prioritized,'' after ``programs and offices'';
        (4) in subparagraph (E), by inserting ``, including the risks 
    of, and capabilities gained or lost by implementing, such 
    modifications'' before the period; and
        (5) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
            ``(F) A description of how the plan supports or affects 
        current Department of Defense strategic guidance, policy, and 
        mission requirements, including the quadrennial defense review, 
        the Unified Command Plan, and the strategic choices and 
        management review.
            ``(G) A description of the associated costs specifically 
        addressed by the savings.''.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

    SEC. 911. MODIFICATIONS OF BIENNIAL STRATEGIC WORKFORCE PLAN 
      RELATING TO SENIOR MANAGEMENT, FUNCTIONAL, AND TECHNICAL 
      WORKFORCES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Senior Management Workforce.--Subsection (c) of section 115b of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following new 
    paragraph (1):
    ``(1) Each strategic workforce plan under subsection (a) shall--
        ``(A) specifically address the shaping and improvement of the 
    senior management workforce of the Department of Defense; and
        ``(B) include an assessment of the senior functional and 
    technical workforce of the Department of Defense within the 
    appropriate functional community.''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``such senior management, 
    functional, and technical workforce'' and inserting ``such senior 
    management workforce and such senior functional and technical 
    workforce''.
    (b) Highly Qualified Experts.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``subsection (f)(1)'' in 
    subparagraphs (D) and (E) and inserting ``subsection (h)(1) or 
    (h)(2)'';
        (2) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (g) 
    and (h), respectively; and
        (3) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
    subsection (f):
    ``(f) Highly Qualified Experts.--(1) Each strategic workforce plan 
under subsection (a) shall include an assessment of the workforce of 
the Department of Defense comprising highly qualified experts appointed 
pursuant to section 9903 of title 5 (in this subsection referred to as 
the `HQE workforce').
    ``(2) For purposes of paragraph (1), each plan shall include, with 
respect to the HQE workforce--
        ``(A) an assessment of the critical skills and competencies of 
    the existing HQE workforce and projected trends in that workforce 
    based on expected losses due to retirement and other attrition;
        ``(B) specific strategies for attracting, compensating, and 
    motivating the HQE workforce of the Department, including the 
    program objectives of the Department to be achieved through such 
    strategies and the funding needed to implement such strategies;
        ``(C) any incentives necessary to attract or retain HQE 
    personnel;
        ``(D) any changes that may be necessary in resources or in the 
    rates or methods of pay needed to ensure the Department has full 
    access to appropriately qualified personnel; and
        ``(E) any legislative actions that may be necessary to achieve 
    HQE workforce goals.''.
    (c) Definitions.--Subsection (h) of such section (as redesignated 
by subsection (b)(2)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(h) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `senior management workforce of the Department 
    of Defense' includes the following categories of Department of 
    Defense civilian personnel:
            ``(A) Appointees in the Senior Executive Service under 
        section 3131 of title 5.
            ``(B) Persons serving in the Defense Intelligence Senior 
        Executive Service under section 1606 of this title.
        ``(2) The term `senior functional and technical workforce of 
    the Department of Defense' includes the following categories of 
    Department of Defense civilian personnel:
            ``(A) Persons serving in positions described in section 
        5376(a) of title 5.
            ``(B) Scientists and engineers appointed pursuant to 
        section 342(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 103-337; 108 Stat. 2721), as 
        amended by section 1114 of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted into law by 
        Public Law 106-398 (114 Stat. 1654A-315)).
            ``(C) Scientists and engineers appointed pursuant to 
        section 1101 of the Strom Thurmond National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (5 U.S.C. 3104 note).
            ``(D) Persons serving in Intelligence Senior Level 
        positions under section 1607 of this title.
        ``(3) The term `acquisition workforce' includes individuals 
    designated under section 1721 of this title as filling acquisition 
    positions.''.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--The heading of subsection (c) of such 
section is amended to read as follows: ``Senior Management Workforce; 
Senior Functional and Technical Workforce.--''.
    (e) Formatting of Annual Report.--Subsections (d)(1) and (e)(1) of 
such section are each amended by striking ``include a separate chapter 
to''.
    SEC. 912. REPEAL OF EXTENSION OF COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON 
      INVENTORY.
    Section 803(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2402), as amended by section 
951(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
(Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 839), is amended by striking ``2013, 
2014, and 2015'' and inserting ``and 2013''.
    SEC. 913. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS OF 
      ACTIVITIES FOR NONGOVERNMENTAL PERSONNEL AT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
      REGIONAL CENTERS FOR SECURITY STUDIES.
    Section 941(b)(1) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (10 U.S.C. 184 note) is amended 
by striking ``through 2014'' and inserting ``through 2019''.
    SEC. 914. PILOT PROGRAM TO ESTABLISH GOVERNMENT LODGING PROGRAM.
    (a) Authority.--Notwithstanding the provisions of section 5911 of 
title 5, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may, for the 
period of time described in subsection (b), establish and carry out a 
Government lodging program to provide Government or commercial lodging 
for employees of the Department of Defense or members of the uniformed 
services under the Secretary's jurisdiction performing duty on official 
travel, and may require such travelers to occupy adequate quarters on a 
rental basis when available.
    (b) Program Duration.--The authority to establish and execute a 
Government lodging program under this section expires on December 31, 
2019.
    (c) Limitation.--A Government lodging program developed under the 
authority in subsection (a), and a requirement under subsection (a) 
with respect to an employee of the Department of Defense, may not be 
construed to be subject to a duty to negotiate under chapter 71 of 
title 5, United States Code.
    (d) Reports.--
        (1) Initial report.--Not later than six months after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
    to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the exercise 
    of authority provided by subsection (a). The report shall include a 
    detailed description of the facets of the Government lodging 
    program, a description of how the program will increase travel 
    efficiencies within the Department, a description of how the 
    program will increase the safety of authorized travelers of the 
    Department of Defense, and an estimate of the savings expected to 
    be achieved by the program.
        (2) Annual reports.--Each year, the Secretary shall include 
    with the materials submitted to Congress by the Secretary in 
    support of the budget submitted by the President under section 
    1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, a report that provides 
    actual savings achieved (or costs incurred) under the Government 
    lodging program to date and a description of estimated savings for 
    the fiscal year budget being submitted, any changes to program 
    rules made since the prior report, and an overall assessment to 
    date of the program's effectiveness in increasing efficiency of 
    travel and safety of Department employees.
        (3) Final report.--With the budget materials submitted to 
    Congress by the Secretary in support of the budget submitted by the 
    President for fiscal year 2019, the Secretary shall include a final 
    report providing the Secretary's overall assessment of the 
    effectiveness of the Government lodging program established under 
    subsection (a), including a statement of savings achieved (or costs 
    incurred) as of that date, and a recommendation for whether the 
    program shall be made permanent. The Secretary may, in consultation 
    with the heads of other Federal agencies, make a recommendation on 
    whether the program should be expanded and made permanent with 
    respect to those other Federal agencies.
        (4) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Committee 
        on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Oversight and Government Reform, and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
    SEC. 915. SINGLE STANDARD MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT RATE FOR PRIVATELY 
      OWNED AUTOMOBILES OF GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES AND MEMBERS OF THE 
      UNIFORMED SERVICES.
    (a) In General.--Section 5704(a)(1) of title 5, United States Code, 
is amended in the last sentence by striking all that follows ``the rate 
per mile'' and inserting ``shall be the single standard mileage rate 
established by the Internal Revenue Service.''.
    (b) Regulations and Reports.--
        (1) Provisions relating to privately owned airplanes and 
    motorcycles.--Paragraph (1)(A) of section 5707(b) of title 5, 
    United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
        ``(1)(A) The Administrator of General Services shall conduct 
    periodic investigations of the cost of travel and the operation of 
    privately owned airplanes and privately owned motorcycles by 
    employees while engaged on official business, and shall report the 
    results of such investigations to Congress at least once a year.''.
        (2) Provisions relating to privately owned automobiles.--Clause 
    (i) of section 5707(b)(2)(A) of title 5, United States Code, is 
    amended to read as follows:
            ``(i) shall provide that the mileage reimbursement rate for 
        privately owned automobiles, as provided in section 5704(a)(1), 
        is the single standard mileage rate established by the Internal 
        Revenue Service referred to in that section, and''.
    SEC. 916. MODIFICATIONS TO REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCOUNTING FOR MEMBERS 
      OF THE ARMED FORCES AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES 
      LISTED AS MISSING.
    (a) Designation of Agency and Director.--Subsection (a) of section 
1501 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Responsibility for Missing Persons.--(1)(A) The Secretary of 
Defense shall designate a single organization within the Department of 
Defense to have responsibility for Department matters relating to 
missing persons, including accounting for missing persons and persons 
whose remains have not been recovered from the conflict in which they 
were lost.
    ``(B) The organization designated under this paragraph shall be a 
Defense Agency or other entity of the Department of Defense outside the 
military departments and is referred to in this chapter as the 
`designated Defense Agency'.
    ``(C) The head of the organization designated under this paragraph 
is referred to in this chapter as the `designated Agency Director'.
    ``(2) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the 
Secretary of Defense, the responsibilities of the designated Agency 
Director shall include the following:
        ``(A) Policy, control, and oversight within the Department of 
    Defense of the entire process for investigation and recovery 
    related to missing persons, including matters related to search, 
    rescue, escape, and evasion.
        ``(B) Policy, control, and oversight of the program established 
    under section 1509 of this title.
        ``(C) Responsibility for accounting for missing persons, 
    including locating, recovering, and identifying missing persons or 
    their remains after hostilities have ceased.
        ``(D) Coordination for the Department of Defense with other 
    departments and agencies of the United States on all matters 
    concerning missing persons.
        ``(E) Dissemination of appropriate information on the status of 
    missing persons to authorized family members.
        ``(F) Establishment of a means for communication between 
    officials of the designated Defense Agency and family members of 
    missing persons, veterans service organizations, concerned 
    citizens, and the public on the Department's efforts to account for 
    missing persons, including a readily available means for 
    communication of their views and recommendations to the designated 
    Agency Director.
    ``(3) In carrying out the responsibilities established under this 
subsection, the designated Agency Director shall be responsible for the 
coordination for such purposes within the Department of Defense among 
the military departments, the Joint Staff, and the commanders of the 
combatant commands.
    ``(4) The designated Agency Director shall establish policies, 
which shall apply uniformly throughout the Department of Defense, for 
personnel recovery (including search, rescue, escape, and evasion) and 
for personnel accounting (including locating, recovering, and 
identifying missing persons or their remains after hostilities have 
ceased).
    ``(5) The designated Agency Director shall establish procedures to 
be followed by Department of Defense boards of inquiry, and by 
officials reviewing the reports of such boards, under this chapter.''.
    (b) Public-private Partnerships and Other Forms of Support.--
Chapter 76 of such title is amended by inserting after section 1501 the 
following new section:
``Sec. 1501a. Public-private partnerships; other forms of support
    ``(a) Public-private Partnerships.--The Secretary of Defense may 
enter into arrangements known as public-private partnerships with 
appropriate entities outside the Government for the purposes of 
facilitating the activities of the designated Defense Agency. The 
Secretary may only partner with foreign governments or foreign entities 
with the concurrence of the Secretary of State. Any such arrangement 
shall be entered into in accordance with authorities provided under 
this section or any other authority otherwise available to the 
Secretary. Regulations prescribed under subsection (e)(1) shall include 
provisions for the establishment and implementation of such 
partnerships.
    ``(b) Acceptance of Voluntary Personal Services.--The Secretary of 
Defense may accept voluntary services to facilitate accounting for 
missing persons in the same manner as the Secretary of a military 
department may accept such services under section 1588(a)(9) of this 
title.
    ``(c) Cooperative Agreements and Grants.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may enter into a 
    cooperative agreement with, or make a grant to, a private entity 
    for purposes related to support of the activities of the designated 
    Defense Agency.
        ``(2) Inapplicability of certain contract requirements.--
    Notwithstanding section 2304(k) of this title, the Secretary may 
    enter such cooperative agreements or grants on a sole-source basis 
    pursuant to section 2304(c)(5) of this title.
    ``(d) Use of Department of Defense Personal Property.--The 
Secretary may allow a private entity to use, at no cost, personal 
property of the Department of Defense to assist the entity in 
supporting the activities of the designated Defense Agency.
    ``(e) Regulations.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
    regulations to implement this section.
        ``(2) Limitation.--Such regulations shall provide that 
    acceptance of a gift (including a gift of services) or use of a 
    gift under this section may not occur if the nature or 
    circumstances of the acceptance or use would compromise the 
    integrity, or the appearance of integrity, of any program of the 
    Department of Defense or any individual involved in such program.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Cooperative agreement.--The term `cooperative agreement' 
    means an authorized cooperative agreement as described in section 
    6305 of title 31.
        ``(2) Grant.--The term `grant' means an authorized grant as 
    described in section 6304 of title 31.''.
    (c) Section 1505 Conforming Amendments.--Section 1505(c) of such 
title is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the office established 
    under section 1501 of this title'' and inserting ``the designated 
    Agency Director''; and
        (2) in paragraphs (2) and (3), by striking ``head of the office 
    established under section 1501 of this title'' and inserting 
    ``designated Agency Director''.
    (d) Section 1509 Amendments.--Section 1509 of such title is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Process'';
            (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``POW/MIA accounting 
        community'' and inserting ``through the designated Agency 
        Director'';
            (C) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph (2):
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary shall assign or detail to the designated 
Defense Agency on a full-time basis a senior medical examiner from the 
personnel of the Armed Forces Medical Examiner System. The primary 
duties of the medical examiner so assigned or detailed shall include 
the identification of remains in support of the function of the 
designated Agency Director to account for unaccounted for persons 
covered by subsection (a).
    ``(B) In carrying out functions under this chapter, the medical 
examiner so assigned or detailed shall report to the designated Agency 
Director.
    ``(C) The medical examiner so assigned or detailed shall--
        ``(i) exercise scientific identification authority;
        ``(ii) establish identification and laboratory policy 
    consistent with the Armed Forces Medical Examiner System; and
        ``(iii) advise the designated Agency Director on forensic 
    science disciplines.
    ``(D) Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted as affecting the 
authority of the Armed Forces Medical Examiner under section 1471 of 
this title.'';
        (2) in subsection (d)--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``; Centralized 
        Database'' after ``Files''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) The Secretary of Defense shall establish and maintain a 
single centralized database and case management system containing 
information on all missing persons for whom a file has been established 
under this subsection. The database and case management system shall be 
accessible to all elements of the Department of Defense involved in the 
search, recovery, identification, and communications phases of the 
program established by this section.''; and
        (3) in subsection (f)--
            (A) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) by striking ``establishing and''; and
                (ii) by striking ``Secretary of Defense shall 
            coordinate'' and inserting ``designated Agency Director 
            shall ensure coordination'';
            (B) in paragraph (2)--
                (i) by inserting ``staff'' after ``National Security 
            Council''; and
                (ii) by striking ``POW/MIA accounting community''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) In carrying out the program, the designated Agency Director 
shall coordinate all external communications and events associated with 
the program.''.
    (e) Report on POW/MIA Policies.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
    the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of 
    Representatives a report on policies and proposals for providing 
    access to information and documents to the next of kin of missing 
    service personnel, including under chapter 76 of title 10, United 
    States Code, as amended by this section.
        (2) Elements of report.--The report required by paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following elements:
            (A) A description of information and documents to be 
        provided to the next of kin, including the status of recovery 
        efforts and service records.
            (B) A description of the Department's plans, if any, to 
        review the classification status of records related to past 
        covered conflicts and missing service personnel.
            (C) An assessment of whether it is feasible and advisable 
        to develop a public interface for any database of missing 
        personnel being developed.
    (f) Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Section heading.--The heading of section 1509 of such title 
    is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1509. Program to resolve missing person cases''.
        (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 76 of such title is amended--
            (A) by inserting after the item relating to section 1501 
        the following new item:

``1501a. Public-private partnerships; other forms of support.''; and

            (B) by striking the item relating to section 1509 and 
        inserting the following new item:

``1509. Program to resolve missing person cases.''.

                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Authority to transfer funds to the National Nuclear Security 
          Administration to sustain nuclear weapons modernization and 
          naval reactors.
Sec. 1003. Reporting of balances carried forward by the Department of 
          Defense at the end of each fiscal year.

                   Subtitle B--Counter-Drug Activities

Sec. 1011. Extension of authority to support unified counterdrug and 
          counterterrorism campaign in Colombia.
Sec. 1012. Extension and modification of authority of Department of 
          Defense to provide support for counterdrug activities of other 
          governmental agencies.
Sec. 1013. Availability of funds for additional support for counterdrug 
          activities of certain foreign governments.
Sec. 1014. Extension and modification of authority for joint task forces 
          supporting law enforcement agencies conducting activities to 
          counter transnational organized crime to support law 
          enforcement agencies conducting counter-terrorism activities.
Sec. 1015. Sense of Congress regarding security in the Western 
          Hemisphere.

                 Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

Sec. 1021. Definition of combatant and support vessel for purposes of 
          the annual plan and certification relating to budgeting for 
          construction of naval vessels.
Sec. 1022. National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund.
Sec. 1023. Limitation on use of funds for inactivation of U.S.S. George 
          Washington.
Sec. 1024. Sense of Congress recognizing the anniversary of the sinking 
          of U.S.S. Thresher.
Sec. 1025. Pilot program for sustainment of Littoral Combat Ships on 
          extended deployments.
Sec. 1026. Availability of funds for retirement or inactivation of 
          Ticonderoga class cruisers or dock landing ships.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1031. Extension of authority to make rewards for combating 
          terrorism.
Sec. 1032. Prohibition on use of funds to construct or modify facilities 
          in the United States to house detainees transferred from 
          United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1033. Prohibition on the use of funds for the transfer or release 
          of individuals detained at United States Naval Station, 
          Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.

          Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1041. Modification of Department of Defense authority for 
          humanitarian demining assistance and stockpiled conventional 
          munitions assistance programs.
Sec. 1042. Airlift service.
Sec. 1043. Authority to accept certain voluntary legal support services.
Sec. 1044. Expansion of authority for Secretary of Defense to use the 
          Department of Defense reimbursement rate for transportation 
          services provided to certain non-Department of Defense 
          entities.
Sec. 1045. Repeal of authority relating to use of military installations 
          by Civil Reserve Air Fleet contractors.
Sec. 1046. Inclusion of Chief of the National Guard Bureau among 
          leadership of the Department of Defense provided physical 
          protection and personal security.
Sec. 1047. Inclusion of regional organizations in authority for 
          assignment of civilian employees of the Department of Defense 
          as advisors to foreign ministries of defense.
Sec. 1048. Report and limitation on availability of funds for aviation 
          foreign internal defense program.
Sec. 1049. Modifications to OH-58D Kiowa Warrior aircraft.

                     Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1051. Protection of top-tier defense-critical infrastructure from 
          electromagnetic pulse.
Sec. 1052. Response of the Department of Defense to compromises of 
          classified information.
Sec. 1053. Study on joint analytic capability of the Department of 
          Defense.
Sec. 1054. Business case analysis of the creation of an active duty 
          association for the 168th Air Refueling Wing.
Sec. 1055. Reports on recommendations of the National Commission on the 
          Structure of the Air Force.
Sec. 1056. Report on protection of military installations.
Sec. 1057. Comptroller General briefing and report on Army and Army 
          National Guard force structure changes.
Sec. 1058. Improving analytic support to systems acquisition and 
          allocation of acquisition, intelligence, surveillance and 
          reconnaissance assets.
Sec. 1059. Review of United States military strategy and the force 
          posture of allies and partners in the United States Pacific 
          Command area of responsibility.
Sec. 1060. Repeal of certain reporting requirements relating to the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 1061. Repeal of requirement for Comptroller General of the United 
          States annual reviews and report on pilot program on 
          commercial fee-for-service air refueling support for the Air 
          Force.
Sec. 1062. Report on additional matters in connection with report on the 
          force structure of the United States Army.
Sec. 1063. Certification for realignment of forces at Lajes Air Force 
          Base, Azores.

                        Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1071. Technical and clerical amendments.
Sec. 1072. Reform of quadrennial defense review.
Sec. 1073. Biennial surveys of Department of Defense civilian employees 
          on workplace and gender relations matters.
Sec. 1074. Revision to statute of limitations for aviation insurance 
          claims.
Sec. 1075. Pilot program for the Human Terrain System.
Sec. 1076. Clarification of policies on management of special use 
          airspace of Department of Defense.
Sec. 1077. Department of Defense policies on community involvement in 
          Department community outreach events.
Sec. 1078. Notification of foreign threats to information technology 
          systems impacting national security.
Sec. 1079. Pilot program to rehabilitate and modify homes of disabled 
          and low-income veterans.

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

SEC. 1001. GENERAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
    (a) Authority to Transfer Authorizations.--
        (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense 
    that such action is necessary in the national interest, the 
    Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made available to 
    the Department of Defense in this division for fiscal year 2015 
    between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any 
    subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred 
    shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes as the 
    authorization to which transferred.
        (2) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the total 
    amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer under the 
    authority of this section may not exceed $4,500,000,000.
        (3) Exception for transfers between military personnel 
    authorizations.--A transfer of funds between military personnel 
    authorizations under title IV shall not be counted toward the 
    dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
    (b) Limitations.--The authority provided by subsection (a) to 
transfer authorizations--
        (1) may only be used to provide authority for items that have a 
    higher priority than the items from which authority is transferred; 
    and
        (2) may not be used to provide authority for an item that has 
    been denied authorization by Congress.
    (c) Effect on Authorization Amounts.--A transfer made from one 
account to another under the authority of this section shall be deemed 
to increase the amount authorized for the account to which the amount 
is transferred by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
    (d) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary shall promptly notify 
Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).
SEC. 1002. AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER FUNDS TO THE NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY 
ADMINISTRATION TO SUSTAIN NUCLEAR WEAPONS MODERNIZATION AND NAVAL 
REACTORS.
    (a) Transfer Authorized.--If the amount authorized to be 
appropriated for the weapons activities of the National Nuclear 
Security Administration under section 3101 or otherwise made available 
for fiscal year 2015 is less than $8,700,000,000 (the amount projected 
to be required for such activities in fiscal year 2015 as specified in 
the report under section 1251 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2549)), the 
Secretary of Defense may transfer, from amounts authorized to be 
appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2015 
pursuant to this Act, to the Secretary of Energy an amount, not to 
exceed $150,000,000, to be available only for naval reactors or weapons 
activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration.
    (b) Notice to Congress.--In the event of a transfer under 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall promptly notify Congress 
of the transfer, and shall include in such notice the Department of 
Defense account or accounts from which funds are transferred.
    (c) Transfer Mechanism.--Any funds transferred under this section 
shall be transferred in accordance with established procedures for 
reprogramming under section 1001 or successor provisions of law.
    (d) Construction of Authority.--The transfer authority provided 
under subsection (a) is in addition to any other transfer authority 
provided under this Act.
SEC. 1003. REPORTING OF BALANCES CARRIED FORWARD BY THE DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE AT THE END OF EACH FISCAL YEAR.
    Not later March 1 of each year, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees, and make publicly 
available on the Internet website of the Department of Defense, the 
following information:
        (1) The total dollar amount, by account, of all balances 
    carried forward by the Department of Defense at the end of the 
    fiscal year preceding the fiscal year during which such information 
    is submitted.
        (2) The total dollar amount, by account, of all unobligated 
    balances carried forward by the Department of Defense at the end of 
    the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year during which such 
    information is submitted.
        (3) The total dollar amount, by account, of any balances (both 
    obligated and unobligated) that have been carried forward by the 
    Department of Defense for five years or more as of the end of the 
    fiscal year preceding the fiscal year during which such information 
    is submitted.

                  Subtitle B--Counter-Drug Activities

SEC. 1011. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT UNIFIED COUNTERDRUG AND 
COUNTERTERRORISM CAMPAIGN IN COLOMBIA.
    (a) Extension.--Section 1021 of the Ronald W. Reagan National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375; 118 
Stat. 2042), as most recently amended by section 1011 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 126 
Stat. 843), is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``2014'' and inserting 
    ``2016''; and
        (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``2014'' and inserting 
    ``2016''.
    (b) Notice to Congress on Assistance.--Not later than 15 days 
before providing assistance under section 1021 of the Ronald W. Reagan 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (as amended by 
subsection (a)) using funds available for fiscal year 2015, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a notice setting forth the assistance to be provided, 
including the types of such assistance, the budget for such assistance, 
and the anticipated completion date and duration of the provision of 
such assistance.
SEC. 1012. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY OF DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE TO PROVIDE SUPPORT FOR COUNTERDRUG ACTIVITIES OF OTHER 
GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1004 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 
U.S.C. 374 note) is amended by striking ``2014'' and inserting 
``2017''.
    (b) Expansion of Authority To Include Activities To Counter 
Transnational Organized Crime.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) by inserting ``or activities to counter transnational 
    organized crime'' after ``counter-drug activities'' each place it 
    appears;
        (2) in subsection (a)(3), by inserting ``or responsibilities 
    for countering transnational organized crime'' after ``counter-drug 
    responsibilities''; and
        (3) in subsection (b)(5), by inserting ``or counter-
    transnational organized crime'' after ``Counter-drug''.
    (c) Notice to Congress on Facilities Projects.--Subsection (h)(2) 
of such section is amended by striking ``$500,000'' and inserting 
``$250,000''.
    (d) Definition of Transnational Organized Crime.--Such section is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(j) Definition of Transnational Organized Crime.--In this 
section, the term `transnational organized crime' means self-
perpetuating associations of individuals who operate transnationally 
for the purpose of obtaining power, influence, monetary, or commercial 
gains, wholly or in part by illegal means, while protecting their 
activities through a pattern of corruption or violence or through a 
transnational organization structure and the exploitation of 
transnational commerce or communication mechanisms.''.
    (e) Clerical Amendment.--The heading of such section is amended to 
read as follows:
``SEC. 1004. ADDITIONAL SUPPORT FOR COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES AND 
ACTIVITIES TO COUNTER TRANSNATIONAL ORGANIZED CRIME.''.
SEC. 1013. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR ADDITIONAL SUPPORT FOR COUNTERDRUG 
ACTIVITIES OF CERTAIN FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS.
    Subsection (e) of section 1033 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105-85; 111 Stat. 
1881), as most recently amended by section 1013(b) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 
Stat. 844), is amended to read as follows:
    ``(e) Availability of Funds.--Of the amount authorized to be 
appropriated for any fiscal year after fiscal year 2014 in which the 
authority under this section is in effect for drug interdiction and 
counter-drug activities, an amount not to exceed $125,000,000 shall be 
available in such fiscal year for the provision of support under this 
section.''.
SEC. 1014. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT TASK 
FORCES SUPPORTING LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES CONDUCTING ACTIVITIES TO 
COUNTER TRANSNATIONAL ORGANIZED CRIME TO SUPPORT LAW ENFORCEMENT 
AGENCIES CONDUCTING COUNTER-TERRORISM ACTIVITIES.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1022 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (10 U.S.C. 371 note) is 
amended by inserting ``or counter-transnational organized crime 
activities'' after ``counter-terrorism activities''.
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``2015'' and inserting ``2020'';
        (2) by inserting ``for drug interdiction and counter-drug 
    activities that are'' after ``funds''; and
        (3) by inserting ``or counter-transnational organized crime'' 
    after ``counter-terrorism''.
    (c) Reports.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``after 2008''; and
            (B) by striking ``Congress'' and inserting ``the 
        congressional defense committees'';
        (2) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by inserting ``, counter-transnational organized 
        crime,'' after ``counter-drug'' the first place it appears; and
            (B) by striking ``counterterrorism support'' and inserting 
        ``counter-terrorism or counter-transnational organized crime 
        support'';
        (3) in paragraph (2), by inserting before the period the 
    following: ``, and a description of the objectives of such 
    support''; and
        (4) in paragraph (3), by striking ``conducting counter-drug 
    operations'' and inserting ``exercising the authority under 
    subsection (a)''.
    (d) Conditions.--Subsection (d)(2) of such section is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A) by inserting ``or counter-transnational 
    organized crime'' after ``counter-terrorism'';
        (2) in subparagraph (B)--
            (A) by striking ``Congress'' and inserting ``the 
        congressional defense committees''; and
            (B) by inserting before the period at the end of the second 
        sentence the following: ``, together with a description of the 
        vital national security interests associated with the support 
        covered by such waiver''; and
        (3) by striking subparagraph (C).
    (e) Support for Counter-Transnational Organized Crime.--Such 
section is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e) Definitions.--(1) In this section, the term `transnational 
organized crime' has the meaning given such term in section 1004(j) of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 
101-510; 10 U.S.C. 374 note).
    ``(2) For purposes of applying the definition of transnational 
organized crime under paragraph (1) to this section, the term `illegal 
means', as it appears in such definition, includes the trafficking of 
money, human trafficking, illicit financial flows, illegal trade in 
natural resources and wildlife, trade in illegal drugs and weapons, and 
other forms of illegal means determined by the Secretary of Defense.''.
SEC. 1015. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING SECURITY IN THE WESTERN 
HEMISPHERE.
    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) The stability and security of the Western Hemisphere has a 
    direct impact on the security interests of the United States.
        (2) Over the past decade, there has been a marked increase in 
    violence and instability in the region as a result of weak 
    governance and increasingly capable transnational criminal 
    organizations. These criminal organizations operate global, multi-
    billion dollar networks that traffic narcotics, humans, weapons, 
    and bulk cash.
        (3) Conflict between the various transnational criminal 
    organizations for smuggling routes and territory has resulted in 
    skyrocketing violence. According to the United Nations Office on 
    Drugs and Crime, Honduras has the highest murder rate in the world 
    with 90 murders per 100,000 people.
        (4) United States Northern Command and United States Southern 
    Command are the lead combatant commands for Department of Defense 
    efforts to combat illicit trafficking in the Western Hemisphere.
        (5) To combat these destabilizing threats, through a variety of 
    authorities, the Department of Defense advises, trains, educates, 
    and equips vetted troops in the region to enhance their military 
    and police forces, with an emphasis on human rights and the rule of 
    law.
        (6) As a result of decades of instability and violence, tens of 
    thousands of unaccompanied alien children and their families have 
    fled to the border between the United States and Mexico. In fiscal 
    year 2014, approximately 66,000 such children were apprehended 
    crossing into the United States from Mexico.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the Department of Defense should continue its efforts to 
    combat transnational criminal organizations in the Western 
    Hemisphere;
        (2) the Department of Defense should increase its maritime, 
    aerial and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
    capabilities in the region to more effectively support efforts to 
    reduce illicit trafficking into the United States; and
        (3) enhancing the capacity of partner nations in the region to 
    combat the threat posed by transnational criminal organizations 
    should be a cornerstone of the Department of Defense's strategy in 
    the region.

                Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

SEC. 1021. DEFINITION OF COMBATANT AND SUPPORT VESSEL FOR PURPOSES OF 
THE ANNUAL PLAN AND CERTIFICATION RELATING TO BUDGETING FOR 
CONSTRUCTION OF NAVAL VESSELS.
    Section 231(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) The term `combatant and support vessel' means any 
    commissioned ship built or armed for naval combat or any naval ship 
    designed to provide support to combatant ships and other naval 
    operations. Such term does not include patrol coastal ships, non-
    commissioned combatant craft specifically designed for combat 
    roles, or ships that are designated for potential mobilization.''.
SEC. 1022. NATIONAL SEA-BASED DETERRENCE FUND.
    (a) Establishment of Fund.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 131 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by inserting after section 2218 the following new 
    section:
``Sec. 2218a. National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund
    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of the 
United States a fund to be known as the `National Sea-Based Deterrence 
Fund'.
    ``(b) Administration of Fund.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
administer the Fund consistent with the provisions of this section.
    ``(c) Fund Purposes.--(1) Funds in the Fund shall be available for 
obligation and expenditure only for construction (including design of 
vessels), purchase, alteration, and conversion of national sea-based 
deterrence vessels.
    ``(2) Funds in the Fund may not be used for a purpose or program 
unless the purpose or program is authorized by law.
    ``(d) Deposits.--There shall be deposited in the Fund all funds 
appropriated to the Department of Defense for construction (including 
design of vessels), purchase, alteration, and conversion of national 
sea-based deterrence vessels.
    ``(e) Expiration of Funds After 5 Years.--No part of an 
appropriation that is deposited in the Fund pursuant to subsection (d) 
shall remain available for obligation more than five years after the 
end of fiscal year for which appropriated except to the extent 
specifically provided by law.
    ``(f) Budget Requests.--Budget requests submitted to Congress for 
the Fund shall separately identify the amount requested for programs, 
projects, and activities for construction (including design of 
vessels), purchase, alteration, and conversion of national sea-based 
deterrence vessels.
    ``(g) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `Fund' means the National Sea-Based Deterrence 
    Fund established by subsection (a).
        ``(2) The term `national sea-based deterrence vessel' means any 
    vessel owned, operated, or controlled by the Department of Defense 
    that carries operational intercontinental ballistic missiles.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 131 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
    relating to section 2218 the following new item:

``2218a. National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund.''.

    (b) Transfer Authority.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), and to the extent 
    provided in appropriations Acts, the Secretary of Defense may 
    transfer to the National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund established by 
    section 2218a of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
    subsection (a)(1), amounts not to exceed $3,500,000,000 from 
    unobligated funds authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
    2014, 2015, or 2016 for the Navy for the Ohio Replacement Program. 
    The transfer authority provided under this paragraph is in addition 
    to any other transfer authority provided to the Secretary of 
    Defense by law.
        (2) Availability.--Funds transferred to the National Sea-Based 
    Deterrence Fund pursuant to paragraph (1) shall remain available 
    for the same period for which the transferred funds were originally 
    appropriated.
SEC. 1023. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR INACTIVATION OF U.S.S. GEORGE 
WASHINGTON.
    No funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for fiscal year 2015 for the Navy may be obligated or 
expended to conduct tasks connected to the inactivation of the U.S.S. 
George Washington (CVN-73) unless such tasks are identical to tasks 
that would be necessary to conduct a refueling and complex overhaul of 
the vessel.
SEC. 1024. SENSE OF CONGRESS RECOGNIZING THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE SINKING 
OF U.S.S. THRESHER.
    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) U.S.S. Thresher was first launched at Portsmouth Naval 
    Shipyard on July 9, 1960.
        (2) U.S.S. Thresher departed Portsmouth Naval Shipyard for her 
    final voyage on April 9, 1963, with a crew of 16 officers, 96 
    sailors, and 17 civilians.
        (3) The mix of that crew reflects the unity of the naval 
    submarine service, military and civilian, in the protection of the 
    United States.
        (4) At approximately 7:47 a.m. on April 10, 1963, while in 
    communication with the surface ship U.S.S. Skylark, and 
    approximately 220 miles off the coast of New England, U.S.S. 
    Thresher began her final descent.
        (5) U.S.S. Thresher was declared lost with all hands on April 
    10, 1963.
        (6) In response to the loss of U.S.S. Thresher, the United 
    States Navy instituted new regulations to ensure the health of the 
    submariners and the safety of the submarines of the United States.
        (7) Those regulations led to the establishment of the Submarine 
    Safety and Quality Assurance program (SUBSAFE), now one of the most 
    comprehensive military safety programs in the world.
        (8) SUBSAFE has kept the submariners of the United States safe 
    at sea ever since as the strongest, safest submarine force in 
    history.
        (9) Since the establishment of SUBSAFE, no SUBSAFE-certified 
    submarine has been lost at sea, which is a legacy owed to the brave 
    individuals who perished aboard U.S.S. Thresher.
        (10) From the loss of U.S.S. Thresher, there arose in the 
    institutions of higher education in the United States the ocean 
    engineering curricula that enables the preeminence of the United 
    States in submarine warfare.
        (11) The crew of U.S.S. Thresher demonstrated the ``last full 
    measure of devotion'' in service to the United States, and this 
    devotion characterizes the sacrifices of all submariners, past and 
    present.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--Congress--
        (1) recognizes the 51st anniversary of the sinking of U.S.S. 
    Thresher;
        (2) remembers with profound sorrow the loss of U.S.S. Thresher 
    and her gallant crew of sailors and civilians on April 10, 1963; 
    and
        (3) expresses its deepest gratitude to all submariners on 
    ``eternal patrol'', who are forever bound together by dedicated and 
    honorable service to the United States of America.
SEC. 1025. PILOT PROGRAM FOR SUSTAINMENT OF LITTORAL COMBAT SHIPS ON 
EXTENDED DEPLOYMENTS.
    (a) Authority.--Notwithstanding subsection (a) of section 7310 of 
title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of the Navy may establish a 
pilot program for the sustainment of Littoral Combat Ships when 
operating on extended deployment as follows:
        (1) The pilot program shall be limited to no more than three 
    Littoral Combat Ships at any one time operating in extended 
    deployment status.
        (2) Sustainment authorized under the pilot program is limited 
    to corrective and preventive maintenance or repair (whether 
    intermediate- or depot-level) and facilities maintenance. Such 
    maintenance or repair may be performed--
            (A) in a foreign shipyard;
            (B) at a facility outside of a foreign shipyard; or
            (C) at any other facility convenient to the vessel.
        (3) Such maintenance or repair may be performed on a vessel as 
    described in paragraph (2) only if the work is performed by United 
    States Government personnel or United States contractor personnel.
        (4) Facilities maintenance may be performed by a foreign 
    contractor on a vessel as described in paragraph (2).
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 120 days after the conclusion 
of the pilot program authorized under subsection (a), the Secretary of 
the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on the pilot program. Such report shall include each of the following:
        (1) Lessons learned from the pilot program regarding 
    sustainment of Littoral Combat Ships while operating on extended 
    deployments, including the extent to which shipboard personnel were 
    involved in performing maintenance.
        (2) A comprehensive sustainment strategy, including maintenance 
    requirements, concepts, and costs, intended to support Littoral 
    Combat Ships operating on extended deployments.
        (3) Observations and recommendations regarding limited 
    exceptions to existing authorities required to support Littoral 
    Combat Ships operating on extended deployments.
        (4) The effect of the pilot program on material readiness and 
    operational availability.
        (5) Whether overseas maintenance periodicities undertaken 
    during the pilot program were accomplished in the scheduled or 
    allotted timeframes throughout the pilot program.
        (6) The total cost to sustain the three Littoral Combat Ships 
    selected for the pilot program during the program, including all 
    costs for Federal and contractor employees performing corrective 
    and preventive maintenance, and all facilitization costs, both 
    ashore and shipboard.
        (7) A detailed comparison of costs, including the cost of 
    labor, between maintenance support provided in the United States 
    and any savings achieved by performing facilities maintenance in 
    foreign shipyards.
        (8) A description of the permanent facilities required to 
    support Littoral Combat Ships operating on extended deployment at 
    overseas locations.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``corrective and preventive maintenance or 
    repair'' means--
            (A) maintenance or repair actions performed as a result of 
        a failure in order to return or restore equipment to acceptable 
        performance levels; or
            (B) scheduled maintenance or repair actions intended to 
        prevent or discover functional failures, including scheduled 
        periodic maintenance requirements and integrated class 
        maintenance plan tasks that are time-directed maintenance 
        actions.
        (2) The term ``facilities maintenance'' means--
            (A) preservation or corrosion control efforts, including 
        surface preparation and preservation of the structural facility 
        to minimize effects of corrosion; or
            (B) cleaning services, including--
                (i) light surface cleaning of ship structures and 
            compartments; and
                (ii) deep cleaning of bilges to remove dirt, oily 
            waste, and other foreign matter.
    (d) Termination.--The authority to carry out a pilot program under 
subsection (a) shall terminate on September 30, 2016.
SEC. 1026. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OR INACTIVATION OF 
TICONDEROGA CLASS CRUISERS OR DOCK LANDING SHIPS.
    (a) Limitation on Availability of Funds.--
        (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this section, 
    none of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
    available for the Department of Defense by this Act or the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66) 
    may be obligated or expended to retire, prepare to retire, 
    inactivate, or place in storage a cruiser or dock landing ship.
        (2) Use of smosf funds.--As provided by section 8107 of the 
    Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-76), funds in 
    the Ship, Modernization, Operations, and Sustainment Fund may be 
    used only for 11 Ticonderoga-class cruisers (CG 63 through CG 73) 
    and 3 dock landing ships (LSD 41, LSD 42, and LSD 46).
    (b) Modernization of Ticonderoga Class Cruisers and Dock Landing 
Ships.--The Secretary of the Navy shall begin the upgrade of two 
cruisers specified in (a)(2) during fiscal year 2015, including--
        (1) hull, mechanical, and electrical upgrades; and
        (2) combat systems modernizations.
    (c) Requirements and Limitations on Modernization.--
        (1) Requirements.--During the period of modernization under 
    subsection (b) of the vessels specified in subsection (a)(2), the 
    Secretary of the Navy shall--
            (A) continue to maintain the vessels in a manner that will 
        ensure the ability of the vessels to reenter the operational 
        fleet;
            (B) conduct planning activities to ensure scheduled and 
        deferred maintenance and modernization work items are 
        identified and included in maintenance availability work 
        packages; and
            (C) conduct hull, mechanical, and electrical and combat 
        system modernization necessary to achieve a service life of 40 
        years.
        (2) Limitations.--During the period of modernization under 
    subsection (b) of the vessels specified in subsection (a)(2), the 
    Secretary may not--
            (A) permit removal or cannibalization of equipment or 
        systems to support operational vessels, other than--
                (i) rotatable pool equipment; and
                (ii) equipment or systems necessary to support urgent 
            operational requirements (but only with the approval of the 
            Secretary of Defense); or
            (B) make any irreversible modifications that will prohibit 
        the vessel from reentering the operational fleet.
    (d) Reports.--
        (1) In general.--At the same time as the submittal to Congress 
    of the budget of the President under section 1105 of title 31, 
    United States, for each fiscal year during which activities under 
    the modernization of vessels will be carried out under this 
    section, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a written report on the status of 
    the modernization of vessels under this section.
        (2) Elements.--Each report under this subsection shall include 
    the following:
            (A) The status of modernization efforts, including 
        availability schedules, equipment procurement schedules, and 
        by-fiscal year funding requirements.
            (B) The readiness and operational and manning status of 
        each vessel to be undergoing modernization under this section 
        during the fiscal year covered by such report.
            (C) The current material condition assessment for each such 
        vessel.
            (D) A list of rotatable pool equipment that is identified 
        across the whole class of cruisers to support operations on a 
        continuing basis.
            (E) A list of equipment, other than rotatable pool 
        equipment and components incidental to performing maintenance, 
        removed from each such vessel, including a justification for 
        the removal, the disposition of the equipment, and plan for 
        restoration of the equipment.
            (F) A detailed plan for obligations and expenditures by 
        vessel for the fiscal year beginning during the calendar year 
        during which the report is submitted, and projections of 
        obligations by vessel by fiscal year for the remaining time a 
        vessel is projected to be in the modernization program.
            (G) A statement of the funding required for that fiscal 
        year to ensure the Ship, Modernization, Operations, and 
        Sustainment Fund account has adequate resources to execute the 
        plan under subparagraph (F) for that fiscal year and the 
        following fiscal year.
        (3) Notice on variance from plan.--Not later than 30 days 
    before executing any material deviation from a plan described in 
    paragraph (2)(F) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall notify the 
    congressional defense committees in writing of such deviation from 
    the plan.
    (e) Repeal of Superseded Limitation.--Section 1023 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 
Stat. 846) is repealed.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

SEC. 1031. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO MAKE REWARDS FOR COMBATING 
TERRORISM.
    Section 127b(c)(3)(C) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``September 30, 2014'' and inserting ``September 30, 
2015''.
SEC. 1032. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CONSTRUCT OR MODIFY 
FACILITIES IN THE UNITED STATES TO HOUSE DETAINEES TRANSFERRED FROM 
UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.
    Section 1033 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 850) is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2014'' and inserting ``December 31, 2015''.
SEC. 1033. PROHIBITION ON THE USE OF FUNDS FOR THE TRANSFER OR RELEASE 
OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, 
CUBA.
    Section 1034 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 851) is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2014'' and inserting ``December 31, 2015''.

         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

SEC. 1041. MODIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORITY FOR 
HUMANITARIAN DEMINING ASSISTANCE AND STOCKPILED CONVENTIONAL MUNITIONS 
ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS.
    (a) Inclusion of Information About Insufficient Funding in Annual 
Report.--Subsection (d)(3) of section 407 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting ``or insufficient funding'' after ``such 
activities''.
    (b) Definition of Stockpiled Conventional Munitions Assistance.--
Subsection (e)(2) of such section is amended--
        (1) by striking ``and includes'' and inserting the following: 
    ``small arms, and light weapons, including man-portable air-defense 
    systems. Such term includes''; and
        (2) by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
    ``, small arms, and light weapons, including man-portable air-
    defense systems''.
SEC. 1042. AIRLIFT SERVICE.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 931 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 9516. Airlift service
    ``(a) Interstate Transportation.--(1) Except as provided in 
subsection (d) of this section, the transportation of passengers or 
property by CRAF-eligible aircraft in interstate air transportation 
obtained by the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military 
department through a contract for airlift service in the United States 
may be provided only by an air carrier that--
        ``(A) has aircraft in the civil reserve air fleet or offers to 
    place the aircraft in that fleet; and
        ``(B) holds a certificate issued under section 41102 of title 
    49.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Transportation shall act as expeditiously as 
possible on an application for a certificate under section 41102 of 
title 49 to provide airlift service.
    ``(b) Transportation Between the United States and Foreign 
Locations.--Except as provided in subsection (d), the transportation of 
passengers or property by CRAF-eligible aircraft between a place in the 
United States and a place outside the United States obtained by the 
Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department through 
a contract for airlift service shall be provided by an air carrier 
referred to in subsection (a).
    ``(c) Transportation Between Foreign Locations.--The transportation 
of passengers or property by CRAF-eligible aircraft between two places 
outside the United States obtained by the Secretary of Defense or the 
Secretary of a military department through a contract for airlift 
service shall be provided by an air carrier referred to in subsection 
(a) whenever transportation by such an air carrier is reasonably 
available.
    ``(d) Exception.--When the Secretary of Defense decides that no air 
carrier holding a certificate under section 41102 of title 49 is 
capable of providing, and willing to provide, the airlift service, the 
Secretary of Defense may make a contract to provide the service with an 
air carrier not having a certificate.
    ``(e) CRAF-eligible Aircraft Defined.--In this section, `CRAF-
eligible aircraft' means aircraft of a type the Secretary of Defense 
has determined to be eligible to participate in the civil reserve air 
fleet.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``9516. Airlift service.''.
SEC. 1043. AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT CERTAIN VOLUNTARY LEGAL SUPPORT 
SERVICES.
    Section 1588(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(10) Voluntary legal support services provided by law 
    students through internship and externship programs approved by the 
    Secretary concerned.''.
SEC. 1044. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY FOR SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO USE THE 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REIMBURSEMENT RATE FOR TRANSPORTATION SERVICES 
PROVIDED TO CERTAIN NON-DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ENTITIES.
    (a) Eligible Categories of Transportation.--Subsection (a) of 
section 2642 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``The 
    Secretary'' and inserting ``Subject to subsection (b), the 
    Secretary'';
        (2) in paragraph (3)--
            (A) by striking ``During the period beginning on October 
        28, 2009, and ending on October 28, 2019, for'' and inserting 
        ``For''; and
            (B) by striking ``of Defense'' the first place it appears 
        and all that follows through ``military sales'' and inserting 
        ``of Defense''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(4) For military transportation services provided in support 
    of foreign military sales.
        ``(5) For military transportation services provided to a State, 
    local, or tribal agency (including any organization composed of 
    State, local, or tribal agencies).
        ``(6) For military transportation services provided to a 
    Department of Defense contractor when transporting supplies that 
    are for, or destined for, a Department of Defense entity.''.
    (b) Termination of Authority for Certain Categories of 
Transportation.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
    subsection (b):
    ``(b) Termination of Authority for Certain Categories of 
Transportation.--The provisions of paragraphs (3), (4), (5), and (6) of 
subsection (a) shall apply only to military transportation services 
provided before October 1, 2019.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Section heading.--The heading of such section is amended to 
    read as follows:
``Sec. 2642. Transportation services provided to certain non-Department 
    of Defense agencies and entities: use of Department of Defense 
    reimbursement rate''.
        (2) Table of sections.--The item relating to such section in 
    the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 157 of such title 
    is amended to read as follows:

``2642. Transportation services provided to certain non-Department of 
          Defense agencies and entities: use of Department of Defense 
          reimbursement rate.''.
SEC. 1045. REPEAL OF AUTHORITY RELATING TO USE OF MILITARY 
INSTALLATIONS BY CIVIL RESERVE AIR FLEET CONTRACTORS.
    (a) Repeal.--Section 9513 of title 10, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 931 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 9513.
SEC. 1046. INCLUSION OF CHIEF OF THE NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU AMONG 
LEADERSHIP OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROVIDED PHYSICAL PROTECTION 
AND PERSONAL SECURITY.
    (a) Inclusion.--Subsection (a) of section 1074 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 
Stat. 330) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (8); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new 
    paragraph (7):
        ``(7) Chief of the National Guard Bureau.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (b)(1) of such section is 
amended by striking ``paragraphs (1) through (7)'' and inserting 
``paragraphs (1) through (8)''.
SEC. 1047. INCLUSION OF REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS IN AUTHORITY FOR 
ASSIGNMENT OF CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AS 
ADVISORS TO FOREIGN MINISTRIES OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Inclusion of Regional Organizations in Authority.--Section 1081 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public 
Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1599; 10 U.S.C. 168 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting 
        ``or regional organizations with security missions'' after 
        ``foreign countries''; and
            (B) by inserting ``or regional organization'' after 
        ``ministry'' each place it appears in paragraphs (1) and (2);
        (2) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (d) 
    and (e), respectively, and inserting after subsection (b) the 
    following new subsection (c):
    ``(c) Congressional Notice.--Not later than 15 days before 
assigning a civilian employee of the Department of Defense as an 
advisor to a regional organization with a security mission under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services and Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committees on 
Armed Services and Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a 
notification of such assignment. Such a notification shall include each 
of the following:
        ``(1) A statement of the intent of the Secretary to assign the 
    employee as an advisor to the regional organization.
        ``(2) The name of the regional organization and the location 
    and duration of the assignment.
        ``(3) A description of the assignment, including a description 
    of the training or assistance proposed to be provided to the 
    regional organization, the justification for the assignment, a 
    description of the unique capabilities the employee can provide to 
    the regional organization, and a description of how the assignment 
    serves the national security interests of the United States.
        ``(4) Any other information relating to the assignment that the 
    Secretary of Defense considers appropriate.'';
        (3) in subsection (d), as so redesignated, by inserting ``and 
    regional organizations with security missions'' after ``defense 
    ministries'' each place it appears in paragraphs (1) and (5); and
        (4) in subsection (e), as so redesignated, by striking 
    ``subsection (c)'' and inserting ``subsection (d)''.
    (b) Update of Policy Guidance on Authority.--The Under Secretary of 
Defense for Policy shall issue an update of the policy of the 
Department of Defense for assignment of civilian employees of the 
Department as advisors to foreign ministries of defense and regional 
organizations under the authority in section 1081 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 
Stat. 1599; 10 U.S.C. 168 note), as amended by this section.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--The section heading of such section is 
amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 1081. AUTHORITY FOR ASSIGNMENT OF CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF THE 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AS ADVISORS TO FOREIGN MINISTRIES OF DEFENSE AND 
REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS.''.
SEC. 1048. REPORT AND LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR AVIATION 
FOREIGN INTERNAL DEFENSE PROGRAM.
    (a) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the aviation foreign 
    internal defense program. Such report shall include each of the 
    following:
            (A) An overall description of the program, including 
        validated requirements from each of the geographic combatant 
        commands and the Joint Staff, and of the statutory authorities 
        used to support fixed and rotary wing aviation foreign internal 
        defense programs within the Department of Defense.
            (B) Program goals, proposed metrics of performance success, 
        and anticipated procurement and operation and maintenance costs 
        across the Future Years Defense Program.
            (C) A comprehensive strategy outlining and justifying 
        contributing commands and units for program execution, 
        including the use of the Air Force, the Special Operations 
        Command, the reserve components of the Armed Forces, and the 
        National Guard.
            (D) The results of any analysis of alternatives and 
        efficiencies reviews for any contracts awarded to support the 
        aviation foreign internal defense program.
            (E) A certification that the program is cost effective and 
        meets the requirements of the geographic combatant commands.
            (F) Any other items the Secretary of Defense determines 
        appropriate.
        (2) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (b) Limitation.--Not more than 50 percent of the funds authorized 
to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal 
year 2015 for Procurement, Defense-wide, for the fixed-wing aviation 
foreign internal defense program, may be obligated or expended until 
the date that is 45 days after the date on which the Secretary of 
Defense provides to the congressional defense committees the 
certification required under subsection (a).
SEC. 1049. MODIFICATIONS TO OH-58D KIOWA WARRIOR AIRCRAFT.
    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 2244a of title 10, United 
States Code, the Secretary of the Army may modify OH-58D Kiowa Warrior 
aircraft of the Army that the Secretary determines will not be retired 
and will remain in the aircraft fleet of the Army.
    (b) Manner of Modifications.--The Secretary shall carry out the 
modifications under subsection (a) in a manner that ensures--
        (1) the safety and survivability of the crews of the OH-58D 
    Kiowa Warrior aircraft;
        (2) the safety of flight for such aircraft; and
        (3) that the minimum capability requirements of the commanders 
    of the combatant commands are met.

                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

SEC. 1051. PROTECTION OF TOP-TIER DEFENSE-CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE FROM 
ELECTROMAGNETIC PULSE.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than June 1, 2015, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on whether top-tier defense-critical infrastructure requiring 
electromagnetic pulse protection that receives its power supply from 
commercial or other non-military sources is protected from the adverse 
effects of man-made or naturally occurring electromagnetic pulse. In 
the case of any of such infrastructure that the Secretary determines is 
not protected from such adverse effects, the Secretary shall include in 
the report a description of the actions that would be required to 
provide for the protection of such infrastructure from such adverse 
effects.
    (b) Form of Submission.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall be submitted in classified form.
    (c) Definition.--In this section, the term ``top-tier defense-
critical infrastructure'' means Department of Defense infrastructure 
essential to project, support, and sustain the Armed Forces and 
military operations worldwide.
SEC. 1052. RESPONSE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO COMPROMISES OF 
CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) Compromises of classified information cause indiscriminate 
    and long-lasting damage to United States national security and 
    often have a direct impact on the safety of warfighters.
        (2) In 2010, hundreds of thousands of classified documents were 
    illegally copied and disclosed across the Internet.
        (3) Classified information has been disclosed in numerous 
    public writings and manuscripts endangering current operations.
        (4) In 2013, nearly 1,700,000 files were downloaded from United 
    States Government information systems, threatening the national 
    security of the United States and placing the lives of United 
    States personnel at extreme risk. The majority of the information 
    compromised relates to the capabilities, operations, tactics, 
    techniques, and procedures of the Armed Forces of the United 
    States, and is the single greatest quantitative compromise in the 
    history of the United States.
        (5) The Department of Defense is taking steps to mitigate the 
    harm caused by these leaks.
        (6) Congress must be kept apprised of the progress of the 
    mitigation efforts to ensure the protection of the national 
    security of the United States.
    (b) Reports Required.--
        (1) Initial report.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
    the congressional defense committees a report on actions taken by 
    the Secretary in response to significant compromises of classified 
    information. Such report shall include each of the following:
            (A) A description of any changes made to Department of 
        Defense policies or guidance relating to significant 
        compromises of classified information, including regarding 
        security clearances for employees of the Department, 
        information technology, and personnel actions.
            (B) An overview of the efforts made by any task force 
        responsible for the mitigation of such compromises of 
        classified information.
            (C) A description of the resources of the Department that 
        have been dedicated to efforts relating to such compromises.
            (D) A description of the plan of the Secretary to continue 
        evaluating the damage caused by, and to mitigate the damage 
        from, such compromises.
            (E) A general description and estimate of the anticipated 
        costs associated with mitigating such compromises.
        (2) Updates to report.--During calendar years 2015 and 2016, 
    the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
    quarterly updates to the report required by paragraph (1). Each 
    such update shall include information regarding any changes or 
    progress with respect to the matters covered by such report.
SEC. 1053. STUDY ON JOINT ANALYTIC CAPABILITY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE.
    (a) Independent Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
commission an appropriate entity outside the Department of Defense to 
conduct an independent assessment of the joint analytic capabilities of 
the Department of Defense to support strategy, plans, and force 
development and their link to resource decisions.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment required by subsection (a) shall 
include each of the following:
        (1) An assessment of the analytical capability of the Office of 
    the Secretary of Defense and the Joint Staff to support force 
    planning, defense strategy development, program and budget 
    decisions, and the review of war plans.
        (2) Recommendations on improvements to such capability as 
    required, including changes to processes or organizations that may 
    be necessary.
    (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the entity that conducts the assessment required 
by subsection (a) shall provide to the Secretary an unclassified 
report, with a classified annex (if appropriate), containing its 
findings as a result of the assessment. Not later than 90 days after 
the date of the receipt of the report, the Secretary shall transmit the 
report to the congressional defense committees, together with such 
comments on the report as the Secretary considers appropriate.
SEC. 1054. BUSINESS CASE ANALYSIS OF THE CREATION OF AN ACTIVE DUTY 
ASSOCIATION FOR THE 168TH AIR REFUELING WING.
    (a) Business Case Analysis.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
conduct a business case analysis of the creation of a 4-PAA (Personnel-
Only) KC-135R active association with the 168th Air Refueling Wing. 
Such analysis shall include consideration of--
        (1) any efficiencies or cost savings achieved assuming the 
    168th Air Refueling Wing meets 100 percent of current air refueling 
    requirements after the active association is in place;
        (2) improvements to the mission requirements of the 168th Air 
    Refueling Wing and Air Mobility Command; and
        (3) effects on the operations of Air Mobility Command.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the 
business case analysis conducted under subsection (a).
SEC. 1055. REPORTS ON RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE NATIONAL COMMISSION ON THE 
STRUCTURE OF THE AIR FORCE.
    (a) Reports.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
submittal to Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, of the budget of the President for each of fiscal years 
2016 through 2019, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the response of the Air 
Force to the 42 specific recommendations of the National Commission on 
the Structure of the Air Force in the report of the Commission pursuant 
to section 363(b) of the National Commission on the Structure of the 
Air Force Act of 2012 (subtitle G of title III of Public Law 112-239; 
126 Stat. 1704).
    (b) Elements of Initial Report.--The initial report of the 
Secretary under subsection (a) shall set forth the following:
        (1) Specific milestones for review by the Air Force of the 
    recommendations of the Commission described in subsection (a).
        (2) A preliminary implementation plan for each of such 
    recommendations that do not require further review by the Air Force 
    as of the date of such report for implementation.
    (c) Elements of Subsequent Reports.--Each report of the Secretary 
under subsection (a) after the initial report shall set forth the 
following:
        (1) An implementation plan for each of the recommendations of 
    the Commission described in subsection (a), and not previously 
    covered by a report under this section, that do not require further 
    review by the Air Force as of the date of such report for 
    implementation.
        (2) A description of the accomplishments of the Air Force in 
    implementing the recommendations of the Commission previously 
    identified as not requiring further review by the Air Force for 
    implementation in an earlier report under this section, including a 
    description of any such recommendation that is fully implemented as 
    of the date of such report.
    (d) Deviation From Commission Recommendations.--If any 
implementation plan under this section includes a proposal to deviate 
in a material manner from a recommendation of the Commission described 
in subsection (a), the report setting forth such implementation plan 
shall--
        (1) describe the deviation; and
        (2) include a justification of the Air Force for the deviation.
    (e) Allocation of Savings.--Each report of the Secretary under 
subsection (a) shall--
        (1) identify any savings achieved by the Air Force as of the 
    date of such report in implementing the recommendations of the 
    Commission described in subsection (a) when compared with spending 
    anticipated by the budget of the President for fiscal year 2015; 
    and
        (2) indicate the manner in which such savings affected the 
    budget request of the President for the fiscal year beginning in 
    the year in which such report is submitted.
SEC. 1056. REPORT ON PROTECTION OF MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Attorney General and 
the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall submit to Congress a report 
on the protection of military installations. Such report shall include 
each of the following:
        (1) An identification of specific issues, shortfalls, and gaps 
    related to the authorities providing for the protection of military 
    installations by the agencies concerned and risks associated with 
    such gaps.
        (2) A description of specific and detailed examples of 
    incidents that have actually occurred that illustrate the concerns 
    referred to in paragraph (1).
        (3) Any recommendations for proposed legislation that would--
            (A) improve the ability of the Department of Defense to 
        fulfill its requirement to provide for the protection of 
        military installations; and
            (B) address the concerns referred to in paragraph (1).
SEC. 1057. COMPTROLLER GENERAL BRIEFING AND REPORT ON ARMY AND ARMY 
NATIONAL GUARD FORCE STRUCTURE CHANGES.
    (a) Briefing and Report.--
        (1) Briefing.--Not later than March 1, 2015, the Comptroller 
    General of the United States shall submit to the congressional 
    defense committees a written briefing on the assessment of the 
    Comptroller General of the Aviation Restructuring Initiative of the 
    Army and of any proposals submitted by the Chief of the National 
    Guard Bureau or the Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation Office 
    of the Department of Defense that could serve as alternatives to 
    the Army's proposal for adjusting the structure and mix of its 
    combat aviation forces among regular Army, Army Reserve, and Army 
    National Guard units.
        (2) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the submittal of the 
    briefing under paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall submit 
    to the congressional defense committees a final report on the 
    assessment referred to in that paragraph.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing and report of the Comptroller General 
required by subsection (a) shall include, at a minimum, each of the 
following:
        (1) A comparison of the assumptions on strategy, current 
    demands, historical readiness rates, anticipated combat 
    requirements, and the constraints and limitations associated with 
    mobilization, utilization, and rotation policies underlying the 
    Aviation Restructuring Initiative and any alternatives proposed by 
    the Chief of the National Guard Bureau and the Department of 
    Defense Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation Office.
        (2) An assessment of the models used to estimate future costs 
    and cost savings associated with each proposal for allocating Army 
    aviation platforms among the regular Army, Army Reserve, and Army 
    National Guard units.
        (3) A comparison of the military and civilian personnel 
    requirements for supporting combat aviation brigades under each 
    proposal, including a description of the anticipated requirements 
    and funding allocated for active Guard Reserve and full-time 
    military technicians supporting the Army National Guard AH-64 
    ``Apache'' units.
    (c) Sense of Congress Regarding Additional Funding for the Army.--
Congress is concerned with the planned reductions and realignments the 
Army has proposed for the regular Army, the Army National Guard, and 
the Army Reserves in order to comply with the funding constraints under 
the Budget Control Act of 2011 (Public Law 112-25). Concerns are 
particularly associated with proposed reductions in end strength for 
all components that will result in additional reductions in the number 
of regular Army and National Guard brigade combat teams as well as 
reductions and realignments of combat aircraft within and between the 
regular Army and the Army National Guard. Sufficient funding should be 
provided to retain the force structure and sustain the readiness of as 
much Total Army combat capability as possible.
SEC. 1058. IMPROVING ANALYTIC SUPPORT TO SYSTEMS ACQUISITION AND 
ALLOCATION OF ACQUISITION, INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE AND 
RECONNAISSANCE ASSETS.
    (a) Guidance.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall review and issue 
or revise guidance to components of the Department of Defense to 
improve the application of operations research and systems analysis 
to--
        (1) the requirements process for acquisition of major defense 
    acquisition programs and major automated information systems; and
        (2) the allocation of intelligence, surveillance, and 
    reconnaissance systems to the combatant commands.
    (b) Briefing of Congress.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall brief--
        (1) the congressional defense committees on any guidance issued 
    or revised under subsection (a); and
        (2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the 
    Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
    Representatives on any guidance issued or revised under subsection 
    (a)(2) relevant to intelligence.
SEC. 1059. REVIEW OF UNITED STATES MILITARY STRATEGY AND THE FORCE 
POSTURE OF ALLIES AND PARTNERS IN THE UNITED STATES PACIFIC COMMAND 
AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY.
    (a) Independent Review.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall commission an 
    independent review of the United States Asia-Pacific rebalance, 
    with a focus on issues expected to be critical during the ten-year 
    period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, 
    including the national security interests and military strategy of 
    the United States in the Asia-Pacific region.
        (2) Conduct of review.--The review conducted pursuant to 
    paragraph (1) shall be conducted by an independent organization 
    that has--
            (A) recognized credentials and expertise in national 
        security and military affairs; and
            (B) access to policy experts throughout the United States 
        and from the Asia-Pacific region.
        (3) Elements.--The review conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following elements:
            (A) An assessment of the risks to United States national 
        security interests in the United States Pacific Command area of 
        responsibility during the ten-year period beginning on the date 
        of the enactment of this Act as a result of changes in the 
        security environment.
            (B) An assessment of the current and planned United States 
        force posture adjustments and the impact of such adjustments on 
        the strategy to rebalance to the Asia-Pacific region.
            (C) An assessment of the current and planned force posture 
        and adjustments of United States allies and partners in the 
        region and the impact of such adjustments on the strategy to 
        rebalance to the Asia-Pacific region.
            (D) An evaluation of the key capability gaps and shortfalls 
        of the United States and its allies and partners in the Asia-
        Pacific region, including undersea warfare (including 
        submarines), naval and maritime, ballistic missile defense, 
        cyber, munitions, and intelligence, surveillance, and 
        reconnaissance capabilities.
            (E) An analysis of the willingness and capacity of allies, 
        partners, and regional organizations to contribute to the 
        security and stability of the Asia-Pacific region, including 
        potential required adjustments to United States military 
        strategy based on that analysis.
            (F) An appraisal of the Arctic ambitions of actors in the 
        Asia-Pacific region in the context of current and projected 
        capabilities, including an analysis of the adequacy and 
        relevance of the Arctic Roadmap prepared by the Navy.
            (G) An evaluation of theater security cooperation efforts 
        of the United States Pacific Command in the context of current 
        and projected threats, and desired capabilities and priorities 
        of the United States and its allies and partners.
            (H) The views of noted policy leaders and regional experts, 
        including military commanders, in the Asia-Pacific region.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) Submission to the secretary of defense.--Not later than 180 
    days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the independent 
    organization that conducted the review pursuant to subsection 
    (a)(1) shall submit to the Secretary of Defense a report containing 
    the findings of the review. The report shall be submitted in 
    classified form, but may contain an unclassified annex.
        (2) Submission to congress.--Not later than 90 days after the 
    date of receipt of the report required by paragraph (1), the 
    Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees the report, together with any comments on the report 
    that the Secretary considers appropriate.
SEC. 1060. REPEAL OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO THE 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Title 10, United States Code.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
        (1) Oversight of procurement, test, and operational plans for 
    ballistic missile defense programs.--Section 223a is amended by 
    striking subsection (d).
        (2) Annual report on public-private competition.--
            (A) Repeal.--Chapter 146 is amended by striking section 
        2462.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 146 is amended by striking the item 
        relating to section 2462.
    (b) Display of Annual Budget Requirements for Air Sovereignty Alert 
Mission Under Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009.--Section 354 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 
4426; 10 U.S.C. 221 note) is hereby repealed.
SEC. 1061. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED 
STATES ANNUAL REVIEWS AND REPORT ON PILOT PROGRAM ON COMMERCIAL FEE-
FOR-SERVICE AIR REFUELING SUPPORT FOR THE AIR FORCE.
    Section 1081 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2008 (Public Law 110-81; 122 Stat. 335) is amended by striking 
subsection (d).
SEC. 1062. REPORT ON ADDITIONAL MATTERS IN CONNECTION WITH REPORT ON 
THE FORCE STRUCTURE OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to 
Congress a report on the matters specified in subsection (b) with 
respect to the report of the Secretary on the force structure of the 
United States Army submitted under section 1066 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 
1943).
    (b) Matters.--The matters specified in this subsection with respect 
to the report referred to in subsection (a) are the following:
        (1) An update of the planning assumptions and scenarios used to 
    determine the size and force structure of the Army, including the 
    reserve components, for the future-years defense program for fiscal 
    years 2016 through 2020.
        (2) An updated evaluation of the adequacy of the proposed force 
    structure for meeting the goals of the national military strategy 
    of the United States.
        (3) A description of any new alternative force structures 
    considered, if any, including the assessed advantages and 
    disadvantages of each and a brief explanation of why those not 
    selected were rejected.
        (4) The estimated resource requirements of each of the new 
    alternative force structures referred to in paragraph (3).
        (5) An updated independent risk assessment of the proposed Army 
    force structure, to be conducted by the Chief of Staff of the Army.
        (6) A description of plans and actions taken to implement and 
    apply the recommendations of the Comptroller General of the United 
    States regarding force reduction analysis and decision process 
    improvements in the report entitled ``Defense Infrastructure: Army 
    Brigade Combat Team Inactivations Informed by Analysis but Actions 
    Needed to Improve Stationing Process'' (GAO-14-76, December 2013) 
    used in the Supplemental Programmatic Environmental Assessment of 
    the Army.
        (7) Such other information or updates as the Secretary 
    considers appropriate.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1063. CERTIFICATION FOR REALIGNMENT OF FORCES AT LAJES AIR FORCE 
BASE, AZORES.
    Prior to taking any action to realign forces at Lajes Air Force 
Base, Azores, the Secretary of Defense shall certify to the 
congressional defense committees that--
        (1) the action is supported by a European Infrastructure 
    Consolidation Assessment initiated by the Secretary of Defense on 
    January 25, 2013, including a specific assessment of the efficacy 
    of Lajes Air Force Base, Azores, in support of the United States 
    overseas force posture; and
        (2) the Secretary of Defense has determined, based on an 
    analysis of operational requirements, that Lajes Air Force Base is 
    not an optimal location for United States Special Operations 
    Command or for United States Africa Command. The certification 
    shall include a discussion of the basis for such determination.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 1071. TECHNICAL AND CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.
    (a) Amendments To Title 10, United States Code, to Reflect 
Enactment of Title 41, United States Code.--Title 10, United States 
Code, is amended as follows:
        (1) Section 2013(a)(1) is amended by striking ``section 
    6101(b)-(d) of title 41'' and inserting ``section 6101 of title 
    41''.
        (2) Section 2302 is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (7), by striking ``section 4 of such Act'' 
        and inserting ``such section''; and
            (B) in paragraph (9)(A)--
                (i) by striking ``section 26 of the Office of Federal 
            Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 422)'' and inserting 
            ``chapter 15 of title 41''; and
                (ii) by striking ``such section'' and inserting ``such 
            chapter''.
        (3) Section 2306a(b)(3)(B) is amended by striking ``section 
    4(12)(C)(i) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 
    U.S.C. 403(12)(C)(i))'' and inserting ``section 103(3)(A) of title 
    41''.
        (4) Section 2314 is amended by striking ``Sections 6101(b)-
    (d)'' and inserting ``Sections 6101''.
        (5) Section 2321(f)(2) is amended by striking ``section 35(c) 
    of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
    431(c))'' and inserting ``section 104 of title 41''.
        (6) Section 2359b(k)(4)(A) is amended by striking ``section 4 
    of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403)'' 
    and inserting ``section 110 of title 41''.
        (7) Section 2379 is amended--
            (A) in subsections (a)(1)(A), (b)(2)(A), and (c)(1)(B)(i), 
        by striking ``section 4(12) of the Office of Federal 
        Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403(12))'' and inserting 
        ``section 103 of title 41''; and
            (B) in subsections (b) and (c)(1), by striking ``section 
        35(c) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 
        U.S.C. 431(c))'' and inserting ``section 104 of title 41''.
        (8) Section 2410m(b)(1) is amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking ``section 7 of such 
        Act'' and inserting ``section 7104(a) of such title''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ``section 7 of the 
        Contract Disputes Act of 1978'' and inserting ``section 7104(a) 
        of title 41''.
        (9) Section 2533(a) is amended by striking ``such Act'' in the 
    matter preceding paragraph (1) and inserting ``chapter 83 of such 
    title''.
        (10) Section 2533b is amended--
            (A) in subsection (h)--
                (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``sections 34 and 35 
            of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
            430 and 431)'' and inserting ``sections 1906 and 1907 of 
            title 41''; and
                (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``section 35(c) of 
            the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
            431(c))'' and inserting ``section 104 of title 41''; and
            (B) in subsection (m)--
                (i) in paragraph (2), by striking ``section 4 of the 
            Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403)'' 
            and inserting ``section 105 of title 41'';
                (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``section 4 of the 
            Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403)'' 
            and inserting ``section 131 of title 41''; and
                (iii) in paragraph (5), by striking ``section 35(c) of 
            the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
            431(c))'' and inserting ``section 104 of title 41''.
        (11) Section 2545(1) is amended by striking ``section 4(16) of 
    the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403(16))'' 
    and inserting ``section 131 of title 41''.
        (12) Section 7312(f) is amended by striking ``Section 3709 of 
    the Revised Statutes (41 U.S.C. 5)'' and inserting ``Section 6101 
    of title 41''.
    (b) Amendments to Other Defense-related Statutes to Reflect 
Enactment of Title 41, United States Code.--
        (1) The Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383) is amended as follows:
            (A) Section 846(a) (10 U.S.C. 2534 note) is amended--
                (i) by striking ``the Buy American Act (41 U.S.C. 10a 
            et seq.)'' and inserting ``chapter 83 of title 41, United 
            States Code''; and
                (ii) by striking ``that Act'' and inserting ``that 
            chapter''.
            (B) Section 866 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
                (i) in subsection (b)(4)(A), by striking ``section 26 
            of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
            422)'' and inserting ``chapter 15 of title 41, United 
            States Code''; and
                (ii) in subsection (e)(2)(A), by striking ``section 
            4(13) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 
            U.S.C. 403(13))'' and inserting ``section 110 of title 41, 
            United States Code''.
            (C) Section 893(f)(2) (10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended by 
        striking ``section 26 of the Office of Federal Procurement 
        Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 422)'' and inserting ``chapter 15 of 
        title 41, United States Code''.
        (2) The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 
    (Public Law 110-181) is amended as follows:
            (A) Section 805(c)(1) (10 U.S.C. 2330 note) is amended--
                (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``section 4(12)(E) 
            of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
            403(12)(E))'' and inserting ``section 103(5) of title 41, 
            United States Code''; and
                (ii) in subparagraph (C)(i), by striking ``section 
            4(12)(F) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act 
            (41 U.S.C. 403(12)(F))'' and inserting ``section 103(6) of 
            title 41, United States Code''.
            (B) Section 821(b)(2) (10 U.S.C. 2304 note) is amended by 
        striking ``section 4(12) of the Office of Federal Procurement 
        Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403(12))'' and inserting ``section 103 of 
        title 41, United States Code''.
            (C) Section 847 (10 U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended--
                (i) in subsection (a)(5), by striking ``section 27(e) 
            of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
            423(e))'' and inserting ``section 2105 of title 41, United 
            States Code'';
                (ii) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``section 4(16) 
            of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act'' and 
            inserting ``section 131 of title 41, United States Code''; 
            and
                (iii) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``section 27 of 
            the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
            423)'' and inserting ``chapter 21 of title 41, United 
            States Code''.
            (D) Section 862 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
                (i) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``section 25 of 
            the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
            421)'' and inserting ``section 1303 of title 41, United 
            States Code''; and
                (ii) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``section 6(j) 
            of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
            405(j))'' and inserting ``section 1126 of title 41, United 
            States Code''.
        (3) The John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364) is amended as follows:
            (A) Section 832(d)(3) (10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended by 
        striking ``section 8(b) of the Service Contract Act of 1965 (41 
        U.S.C. 357(b))'' and inserting ``section 6701(3) of title 41, 
        United States Code''.
            (B) Section 852(b)(2)(A)(ii) (10 U.S.C. 2324 note) is 
        amended by striking ``section 4(12) of the Office of Federal 
        Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 403(12))'' and inserting 
        ``section 103 of title 41, United States Code''.
        (4) Section 8118 of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
    Act, 2005 (Public Law 108-287; 10 U.S.C. 2533a note) is amended by 
    striking ``section 34 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy 
    Act (41 U.S.C. 430)'' and inserting ``section 1906 of title 41, 
    United States Code''.
        (5) The National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 
    (Public Law 108-136) is amended as follows:
            (A) Section 812(b)(2) (10 U.S.C. 2501 note) is amended by 
        striking ``section 6(d)(4)(A) of the Office of Federal 
        Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 405(d)(4)(A))'' and inserting 
        ``section 1122(a)(4)(A) of title 41, United States Code''.
            (B) Section 1601(c) (10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended--
                (i) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``section 32A of 
            the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act, as added by 
            section 1443 of this Act'' and inserting ``section 1903 of 
            title 41, United States Code''; and
                (ii) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``Subsections (a) 
            and (b) of section 7 of the Anti-Kickback Act of 1986 (41 
            U.S.C. 57(a) and (b))'' and inserting ``Section 8703(a) of 
            title 41, United States Code''.
        (6) Section 8025(c) of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
    Act, 2004 (Public Law 108-87; 10 U.S.C. 2410d note), is amended by 
    striking ``the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 46-48)'' and 
    inserting ``chapter 85 of title 41, United States Code''.
        (7) Section 817(e)(1)(B) of the Bob Stump National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 10 
    U.S.C. 2306a note) is amended by striking ``section 26(f)(5)(B) of 
    the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
    422(f)(5)(B))'' and inserting ``section 1502(b)(3)(B) of title 41, 
    United States Code''.
        (8) Section 801(f)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2002 (Public Law 107-107; 10 U.S.C. 2330 note) is 
    amended by striking ``section 16(3) of the Office of Federal 
    Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 414(3))'' and inserting ``section 
    1702(c) of title 41, United States Code''.
        (9) Section 803(d) of the Strom Thurmond National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105-261; 10 
    U.S.C. 2306a note) is amended by striking ``subsection (b)(1)(B) of 
    section 304A of the Federal Property and Administrative Services 
    Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 254b)'' and inserting ``section 3503(a)(2) 
    of title 41, United States Code''.
        (10) Section 848(e)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105-85; 10 U.S.C. 2304 note) 
    is amended by striking ``section 32 of the Office of Federal 
    Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 428)'' and inserting ``section 
    1902 of title 41, United States Code''.
        (11) Section 722(b)(2) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 1997 (Public Law 104-201; 10 U.S.C. 1073 note) 
    is amended by striking ``section 25(c) of the Office of Federal 
    Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 421(c))'' and inserting ``section 
    1303(a) of title 41, United States Code''.
        (12) Section 3412(k) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 1996 (Public Law 104-106, 10 U.S.C. 7420 note) is 
    amended by striking ``section 303(c) of the Federal Property and 
    Administrative Services Act of 1949 (41 U.S.C. 253(c))'' and 
    inserting ``section 3304(a) of title 41, United States Code''.
        (13) Section 845 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 1994 (Public Law 103-160; 10 U.S.C. 2371 note) is 
    amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(2)(A), by striking ``section 16(c) of 
        the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
        414(c))'' and inserting ``section 1702(c) of title 41, United 
        States Code,'';
            (B) in subsection (d)(1)(B)(ii), by striking ``section 
        16(3) of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 
        U.S.C. 414(3))'' and inserting ``section 1702(c) of title 41, 
        United States Code'';
            (C) in subsection (e)(2)(A), by striking ``section 4(12) of 
        the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 
        403(12))'' and inserting ``section 103 of title 41, United 
        States Code''; and
            (D) in subsection (h), by striking ``section 27 of the 
        Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 423)'' and 
        inserting ``chapter 21 of title 41, United States Code''.
        (14) Section 326(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (Public Law 102-484; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) 
    is amended by striking ``section 25(c) of the Office of Federal 
    Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 421(c))'' and inserting ``section 
    1303(a) of title 41, United States Code''.
        (15) Section 806 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Years 1992 and 1993 (Public Law 102-190; 10 U.S.C. 2302 
    note) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (b), by striking ``section 4(12) of the 
        Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act'' and inserting 
        ``section 103 of title 41, United States Code''; and
            (B) in subsection (c)--
                (i) by striking ``section 25(a) of the Office of 
            Federal Procurement Policy Act'' and inserting ``section 
            1302(a) of title 41, United States Code''; and
                (ii) by striking ``section 25(c)(1) of the Office of 
            Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 421(c)(1))'' and 
            inserting ``section 1303(a)(1) of such title 41''.
        (16) Section 831 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is 
    amended--
            (A) by designating the subsection after subsection (k), 
        relating to definitions, as subsection (l); and
            (B) in paragraph (8) of that subsection, by striking ``the 
        first section of the Act of June 25, 1938 (41 U.S.C. 46; 
        popularly known as the `Wagner-O'Day Act')'' and inserting 
        ``section 8502 of title 41, United States Code''.
    (c) Amendments to Title 10, United States Code, To Reflect 
Reclassification of Provisions of Law Codified in Title 50, United 
States Code.--Title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
        (1) Sections 113(b), 125(a), and 155(d) are amended by striking 
    ``(50 U.S.C. 401)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3002)''.
        (2) Sections 113(e)(2), 117(a)(1), 118(b)(1), 118a(b)(1), 
    153(b)(1)(C)(i), 231(b)(1), 231a(c)(1), and 2501(a)(1)(A) are 
    amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 404a)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 
    3043)''.
        (3) Sections 167(g), 421(c), and 2557(c) are amended by 
    striking ``(50 U.S.C. 413 et seq.)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 
    3091 et seq.)''.
        (4) Section 201(b)(1) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 403-
    6(b))'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3041(b))''.
        (5) Section 429 is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``Section 102A of the 
        National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 403-1)'' and inserting 
        ``section 102A of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
        3024)''; and
            (B) in subsection (e), by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 401a(4))'' 
        and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3003(4))''.
        (6) Section 442(d) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 
    404e(a))'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3045(a))''.
        (7) Section 444 is amended--
            (A) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 403o)'' 
        and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3515)''; and
            (B) in subsection (e)(2)(B), by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 403a 
        et seq.)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.)''.
        (8) Section 457 is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 431)'' and 
        inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3141)''; and
            (B) in subsection (c), by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 431(b))'' 
        and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3141(b))''.
        (9) Sections 462, 1599a(a), and 1623(a) are amended by striking 
    ``(50 U.S.C. 402 note)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3614)''.
        (10) Sections 491(c)(3), 494(d)(1), 496(a)(1), 2409(e)(1) are 
    amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 401a(4))'' and inserting ``(50 
    U.S.C. 3003(4))''.
        (11) Section 1605(a)(2) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 
    403r)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3518)''.
        (12) Section 2723(d)(2) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 
    413)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3091)''.
    (d) Amendments to Other Defense-Related Statutes To Reflect 
Reclassification of Provisions of Law Codified in Title 50, United 
States Code.--
        (1) The following provisions of law are amended by striking 
    ``(50 U.S.C. 401a(4))'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3003(4))'':
            (A) Section 911(3) of the Ike Skelton National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 
        U.S.C. 2271 note).
            (B) Sections 801(b)(3) and 911(e)(2) of the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-
        181; 10 U.S.C. 2304 note; 2271 note).
            (C) Section 812(e) of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 108-136; 10 U.S.C. 2501 
        note).
        (2) Section 901(d) of the Bob Stump National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 10 
    U.S.C. 137 note) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 401 et seq.)'' 
    and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.)''.
    (e) Date of Enactment References.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
        (1) Section 1218(d)(3) is amended by striking ``on the date 
    that is five years after the date of the enactment of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010'' and inserting ``on 
    October 28, 2014''.
        (2) Section 1566a(a) is amended by striking ``Not later than 
    180 days after the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 and under'' and inserting 
    ``Under''.
        (3) Section 2275(d) is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``before the date of the 
        enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2013'' and inserting ``before January 2, 2013''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``on or after the date of 
        the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2013'' and inserting ``on or after January 2, 
        2013''.
        (4) Section 2601a(e) is amended by striking ``after the date of 
    the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
    Year 2012'' and inserting ``after December 31, 2011,''.
        (5) Section 6328(c) is amended by striking ``on or after the 
    date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2010'' and inserting ``on or after October 28, 2009,''.
    (f) Other Technical Corrections to Title 10, United States Code.--
Title 10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
        (1) Section 118 is amended by striking subsection (g).
        (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 3 is 
    amended--
            (A) by striking the item relating to section 130e and 
        inserting the following new item:

``130e. Treatment under Freedom of Information Act of certain critical 
          infrastructure security information.''; and

            (B) by striking the item relating to section 130f and 
        inserting the following new item:

``130f. Congressional notification of sensitive military operations.''.

        (3) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 7 is 
    amended by inserting a period at the end of the item relating to 
    section 189.
        (4) Section 189(c)(1) is amended by striking ``139c'' and 
    inserting ``2430(a)''.
        (5) Section 407(a)(3)(A) is amended by striking the comma after 
    ``as applicable''.
        (6) Section 429(c) is amended by striking ``act'' and inserting 
    ``law''.
        (7) Section 488(a) is amended by inserting a comma after 
    ``Every three years''.
        (8) Section 674(b) is amended by striking ``afer'' and 
    inserting ``after''.
        (9) Section 949i(b) is amended by striking ``,,'' and inserting 
    a comma.
        (10) Section 950b(b)(2)(A) is amended by striking ``give'' and 
    inserting ``given''.
        (11) Section 1040(a)(1) is amended by striking ``..'' and 
    inserting a period.
        (12) Section 1044(d)(2) is amended by striking ``..'' and 
    inserting a period.
        (13) Section 1074m(a)(2) is amended by striking 
    ``subparagraph'' in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) and 
    inserting ``subparagraphs''.
        (14) Section 1154(a)(2)(A)(ii) is amended by striking 
    ``U.S.C.1411'' and inserting ``U.S.C. 1411''.
        (15) Section 1513(1) is amended in the last sentence by 
    striking ``subsection (b)'' and inserting ``subsection (c)''.
        (16) Section 2222(g)(3) is amended by striking ``(A)'' after 
    ``(3)''.
        (17) Section 2335(d) is amended--
            (A) by designating the last sentence of paragraph (2) as 
        paragraph (3); and
            (B) in paragraph (3), as so designated--
                (i) by inserting before ``each of'' the following 
            paragraph heading: ``Other terms.--''.
                (ii) by striking ``the term'' and inserting ``that 
            term''; and
                (iii) by striking ``Federal Campaign'' and inserting 
            ``Federal Election Campaign''.
        (18) Section 2430(c)(2) is amended by striking ``section 
    2366a(a)(4)'' and inserting ``section 2366a(a)(6)''.
        (19) Section 2601a is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``issue'' and 
        inserting ``prescribe''; and
            (B) in subsection (d), by striking ``issued'' and inserting 
        ``prescribed''.
        (20) Section 2371 is amended by striking subsection (h).
        (21) The item relating to section 2642 in the table of sections 
    at the beginning of chapter 157 is amended by striking ``rates'' 
    and inserting ``rate''.
        (22) Section 2642(a)(3) is amended by inserting ``and'' after 
    ``Department of Defense''.
        (23) Section 2684a(h) is amended by inserting ``670'' after 
    ``U.S.C.''.
        (24) Section 2853(c)(1)(A) is amended by striking ``can be 
    still be'' and inserting ``can still be''.
        (25) Section 2866(a)(4)(A) is amended by striking ``repayed'' 
    and inserting ``repaid''.
        (26) Section 2884(c) is amended by striking ``on evaluation'' 
    in the matter preceding paragraph (1) and inserting ``an 
    evaluation''.
        (27) Section 7292(d)(2) is amended by striking ``section 
    1024(a)'' and inserting ``section 1018(a)''.
    (g) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014.--
Effective as of December 26, 2013, and as if included therein as 
enacted, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
(Public Law 113-66) is amended as follows:
        (1) Section 314 (127 Stat. 729) is amended by striking 
    ``Section 317(c)(2)'' and inserting ``Section 317(d)(2)''.
        (2) Section 812(a)(3)(B) (127 Stat. 807) is amended by 
    inserting ``the first place it appears'' before the semicolon.
        (3) Section 905(b) (127 Stat. 818) is amended by striking 
    ``training, and education'' and inserting ``Training, and 
    education''.
        (4) Section 1073(a)(2)(B) (127 Stat. 869) is amended by 
    striking ``and'' after ``inserting''.
        (5) Section 1709(b)(1)(B) (127 Stat. 962; 10 U.S.C. 113 note) 
    is amended by striking ``of'' after ``such''.
        (6) Section 2712 (127 Stat. 1004) is repealed.
        (7) Section 2809(a) (127 Stat. 1013) is amended by striking 
    ``subjection'' and inserting ``subsection''.
        (8) Section 2966 (127 Stat. 1042) is amended in the section 
    heading by striking ``title'' and inserting ``administrative 
    jurisdiction''.
        (9) Section 2971(a) (127 Stat. 1044) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``the map'' and inserting ``the maps''; and
            (B) by striking ``the mineral leasing laws, and the 
        geothermal leasing laws'' and inserting ``and the mineral 
        leasing laws''.
        (10) Section 2972(d)(1) (127 Stat. 1045) is amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``public'' before 
        ``land''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``public''.
        (11) Section 2977(c)(3) (127 Stat. 1047) is amended by striking 
    ``; and'' and inserting a period.
    (h) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013.--
Effective as of January 2, 2013, and as if included therein as enacted, 
section 604(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1774) is amended by striking 
``on the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2013'' and inserting ``on January 2, 2013,''.
    (i) Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2011.--Section 1631(b)(6) of the Ike Skelton National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 
1561 note) is amended by striking ``section 596(b) of such Act'' and 
inserting ``section 596(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note)''.
    (j) Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act.--Section 
11(b)(2) of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 
U.S.C. 98h-2(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``under section 9(b)(2)(G)'' 
and inserting ``under section 9(b)(2)(H)''.
    (k) Coordination With Other Amendments Made by This Act.--For 
purposes of applying amendments made by provisions of this Act other 
than this section, the amendments made by this section shall be treated 
as having been enacted immediately before any such amendments by other 
provisions of this Act.
SEC. 1072. REFORM OF QUADRENNIAL DEFENSE REVIEW.
    (a) In General.--
        (1) Reform.--Section 118 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 118. Defense Strategy Review
    ``(a) Defense Strategy Review.--
        ``(1) Review required.--Every four years, during a year 
    following a year evenly divisible by four, the Secretary of Defense 
    shall conduct a comprehensive examination (to be known as a 
    `Defense Strategy Review') of the national defense strategy, force 
    structure, modernization plans, posture, infrastructure, budget 
    plan, and other elements of the defense program and policies of the 
    United States with a view toward determining and expressing the 
    defense strategy of the United States and establishing a defense 
    program. Each such Defense Strategy Review shall be conducted in 
    consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
        ``(2) Conduct of review.--Each Defense Strategy Review shall be 
    conducted so as to--
            ``(A) delineate a national defense strategy in support of 
        the most recent National Security Strategy prescribed by the 
        President pursuant to section 108 of the National Security Act 
        of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3043);
            ``(B) provide a mechanism for--
                ``(i) setting priorities for sizing and shaping the 
            force, guiding the development and sustainment of 
            capabilities, allocating resources, and adjusting the 
            organization of the Department of Defense to respond to 
            changes in the strategic environment;
                ``(ii) monitoring, assessing, and holding accountable 
            agencies within the Department of Defense for the 
            development of policies and programs that support the 
            national defense strategy;
                ``(iii) integrating and supporting other national and 
            related interagency security policies and strategies with 
            other Department of Defense guidance, plans, and 
            activities; and
                ``(iv) communicating such national defense strategy to 
            Congress, relevant United States Government agencies, 
            allies and international partners, and the private sector;
            ``(C) consider three general timeframes of the near-term 
        (associated with the future-years defense program), mid-term 
        (10 to 15 years), and far-term (20 years);
            ``(D) address the security environment, threats, trends, 
        opportunities, and challenges, and define the nature and 
        magnitude of the strategic and military risks associated with 
        executing the national defense strategy by using the most 
        recent net assessment submitted by the Secretary of Defense 
        under section 113 of this title, the risk assessment submitted 
        by Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under section 153 of 
        this title, and, as determined necessary or useful by the 
        Secretary, any other Department of Defense, Government, or non-
        government strategic or intelligence estimate, assessment, 
        study, or review;
            ``(E) define the force size and structure, capabilities, 
        modernization plans, posture, infrastructure, readiness, 
        organization, and other elements of the defense program of the 
        Department of Defense that would be required to execute 
        missions called for in such national defense strategy;
            ``(F) to the extent practical, estimate the budget plan 
        sufficient to execute the missions called for in such national 
        defense strategy;
            ``(G) define the nature and magnitude of the strategic and 
        military risks associated with executing such national defense 
        strategy; and
            ``(H) understand the relationships and tradeoffs between 
        missions, risks, and resources.
        ``(3) Submission of report on defense strategy review to 
    congressional committees.--The Secretary shall submit a report on 
    each Defense Strategy Review to the Committees on Armed Services of 
    the Senate and the House of Representatives. Each such report shall 
    be submitted by not later than March 1 of the year following the 
    year in which the review is conducted. If the year in which the 
    review is conducted is in the second term of a President, the 
    Secretary may submit an update to the Defense Strategy Review 
    report submitted during the first term of that President.
        ``(4) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (3) shall 
    provide a comprehensive discussion of the Review, including each of 
    the following:
            ``(A) The national defense strategy of the United States.
            ``(B) The assumed or defined prioritized national security 
        interests of the United States that inform the national defense 
        strategy defined in the Review.
            ``(C) The assumed strategic environment, including the 
        threats, developments, trends, opportunities, and challenges 
        that affect the assumed or defined national security interests 
        of the United States.
            ``(D) The assumed steady state activities, crisis and 
        conflict scenarios, military end states, and force planning 
        construct examined in the review.
            ``(E) The prioritized missions of the armed forces under 
        the strategy and a discussion of the roles and missions of the 
        components of the armed forces to carry out those missions.
            ``(F) The assumed roles and capabilities provided by other 
        United States Government agencies and by allies and 
        international partners.
            ``(G) The force size and structure, capabilities, posture, 
        infrastructure, readiness, organization, and other elements of 
        the defense program that would be required to execute the 
        missions called for in the strategy.
            ``(H) An assessment of the significant gaps and shortfalls 
        between the force size and structure, capabilities, and 
        additional elements as required by subparagraph (G) and the 
        current elements in the Department's existing program of 
        record, a prioritization of those gaps and shortfalls, and an 
        understanding of the relationships and tradeoffs between 
        missions, risks, and resources.
            ``(I) An assessment of the risks assumed by the strategy, 
        including--
                ``(i) how the Department defines, categorizes, and 
            measures risk, including strategic and military risk; and
                ``(ii) the plan for mitigating major identified risks, 
            including the expected timelines for, and extent of, any 
            such mitigation, and the rationale for where greater risk 
            is accepted.
            ``(J) Any other key assumptions and elements addressed in 
        the review or that the Secretary considers necessary to 
        include.
        ``(5) CJCS review.--(A) Upon the completion of each Review 
    under this subsection, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
    shall prepare and submit to the Secretary of Defense the Chairman's 
    assessment of risks under the defense strategy developed by the 
    Review and a description of the capabilities needed to address such 
    risks.
        ``(B) The Chairman's assessment shall be submitted to the 
    Secretary in time for the inclusion of the assessment in the report 
    on the Review required by paragraph (3). The Secretary shall 
    include the Chairman's assessment, together with the Secretary's 
    comments, in the report in its entirety.
        ``(6) Form.--The report required under paragraph (3) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex 
    if the Secretary determines it is necessary to protect national 
    security.
    ``(b) National Defense Panel.--
        ``(1) Establishment.--Not later than February 1 of a year 
    following a year evenly divisible by four, there shall be 
    established an independent panel to be known as the National 
    Defense Panel (in this subsection referred to as the `Panel'). The 
    Panel shall have the duties set forth in this subsection.
        ``(2) Membership.--The Panel shall be composed of ten members 
    from private civilian life who are recognized experts in matters 
    relating to the national security of the United States. Eight of 
    the members shall be appointed as follows:
            ``(A) Two by the chairman of the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the House of Representatives.
            ``(B) Two by the chairman of the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the Senate.
            ``(C) Two by the ranking member of the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the House of Representatives.
            ``(D) Two by the ranking member of the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the Senate.
        ``(3) Co-chairs of the panel.--In addition to the members 
    appointed under paragraph (2), the Secretary of Defense shall 
    appoint two members from private civilian life to serve as co-
    chairs of the panel.
        ``(4) Period of appointment; vacancies.--Members shall be 
    appointed for the life of the Panel. Any vacancy in the Panel shall 
    be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
        ``(5) Duties.--The Panel shall have the following duties with 
    respect to a Defense Strategy Review conducted under subsection 
    (a):
            ``(A) Assessing the current and future security 
        environment, including threats, trends, developments, 
        opportunities, challenges, and risks, by using the most recent 
        net assessment submitted by the Secretary of Defense under 
        section 113 of this title, the risk assessment submitted by 
        Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staffs under section 153 of 
        this title, and, as determined necessary or useful by the 
        Panel, any other Department of Defense, Government, or non-
        government strategic or intelligence estimate, assessment, 
        study, review, or expert.
            ``(B) Suggesting key issues that should be addressed in the 
        Defense Strategy Review.
            ``(C) Based upon the assessment under subparagraph (A), 
        identifying and discussing the national security interests of 
        the United States and the role of the armed forces and the 
        Department of Defense related to the protection or promotion of 
        those interests.
            ``(D) Assessing the report on the Defense Strategy Review 
        submitted by the Secretary of Defense under subsection (a)(3).
            ``(E) Assessing the assumptions, strategy, findings, and 
        risks of the report on the Defense Strategy Review submitted 
        under subsection (a)(3).
            ``(F) Considering alternative defense strategies.
            ``(G) Assessing the force structure and capabilities, 
        posture, infrastructure, readiness, organization, budget plans, 
        and other elements of the defense program of the United States 
        to execute the missions called for in the Defense Strategy 
        Review and in the alternative strategies considered under 
        subparagraph (F).
            ``(H) Providing to Congress and the Secretary of Defense, 
        in the report required by paragraph (7), any recommendations it 
        considers appropriate for their consideration.
        ``(6) First meeting.--If the Secretary of Defense has not made 
    the Secretary's appointments to the Panel under paragraph (3) by 
    March 1 of a year in which the Panel is established, the Panel 
    shall convene for its first meeting with the remaining members.
        ``(7) Reports.--Not later than three months after the date on 
    which the report on a Defense Strategy Review is submitted under 
    paragraph (3) of subsection (a) to the committees of Congress 
    referred to in such paragraph, the Panel shall submit to such 
    committees a report on the Panel's assessment of such Defense 
    Strategy Review, as required by paragraph (5).
        ``(8) Administrative provisions.--The following administrative 
    provisions apply to a Panel established under paragraph (1):
            ``(A) The Panel may request directly from the Department of 
        Defense and any of its components such information as the Panel 
        considers necessary to carry out its duties under this 
        subsection. The head of the department or agency concerned 
        shall cooperate with the Panel to ensure that information 
        requested by the Panel under this paragraph is promptly 
        provided to the maximum extent practical.
            ``(B) Upon the request of the co-chairs, the Secretary of 
        Defense shall make available to the Panel the services of any 
        federally funded research and development center that is 
        covered by a sponsoring agreement of the Department of Defense.
            ``(C) The Panel shall have the authorities provided in 
        section 3161 of title 5 and shall be subject to the conditions 
        set forth in such section.
            ``(D) Funds for activities of the Panel shall be provided 
        from amounts available to the Department of Defense.
        ``(9) Termination.--A Panel established under paragraph (1) 
    shall terminate 45 days after the date on which the Panel submits 
    its report on a Defense Strategy Review under paragraph (7).''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The item relating to section 118 at 
    the beginning of chapter 2 of such title is amended to read as 
    follows:

``118. Defense Strategy Review.''.

    (b) Repeal of Quadrennial Roles and Missions Review.--
        (1) Repeal.--Chapter 2 of such title is amended by striking 
    section 118b.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--The table of sections at the 
    beginning of such chapter is amended by striking the item relating 
    to section 118b.
    (c) Effective Date.--Section 118 of such title, as amended by 
subsection (a), and the amendments made by this section, shall take 
effect on October 1, 2015.
    (d) Additional Requirement for Next Defense Strategy Review.--The 
first Defense Strategy Review required by subsection (a)(1) of section 
118 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by subsection (a) of 
this section, shall include an analysis of enduring mission 
requirements for equipping, training, sustainment, and other operation 
and maintenance activities of the Department of Defense, including the 
Defense Agencies and military departments, that are financed by amounts 
authorized to be appropriated for overseas contingency operations.
SEC. 1073. BIENNIAL SURVEYS OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES 
ON WORKPLACE AND GENDER RELATIONS MATTERS.
    (a) Surveys Required.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 23 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after section 481 the following new section:
``Sec. 481a. Workplace and gender relations issues: surveys of 
    Department of Defense civilian employees
    ``(a) In General.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall carry out 
every other fiscal year a survey of civilian employees of the 
Department of Defense to solicit information on gender issues, 
including issues relating to gender-based assault, harassment, and 
discrimination, and the climate in the Department for forming 
professional relationships between male and female civilian employees 
of the Department.
    ``(2) Each survey under this section shall be known as a 
`Department of Defense Civilian Employee Workplace and Gender Relations 
Survey'.
    ``(b) Elements.--Each survey conducted under this section shall be 
conducted so as to solicit information on the following:
        ``(1) Indicators of positive and negative trends for 
    professional and personal relationships between male and female 
    civilian employees of the Department of Defense.
        ``(2) The specific types of assault on civilian employees of 
    the Department by other personnel of the Department (including 
    contractor personnel) that have occurred, and the number of times 
    each respondent has been so assaulted during the preceding fiscal 
    year.
        ``(3) The effectiveness of Department policies designed to 
    improve professional relationships between male and female civilian 
    employees of the Department.
        ``(4) The effectiveness of current processes for complaints on 
    and investigations into gender-based assault, harassment, and 
    discrimination involving civilian employees of the Department.
        ``(5) Any other issues relating to assault, harassment, or 
    discrimination involving civilian employees of the Department that 
    the Secretary considers appropriate.
    ``(c) Report to Congress.--Upon the completion of a survey under 
this section, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
containing the results of the survey.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 23 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
    relating to section 481 the following new item:

``481a. Workplace and gender relations issues: surveys of Department of 
          Defense civilian employees.''.

        (3) Initial survey.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out 
    the first survey required by section 481a of title 10, United 
    States Code (as added by this subsection), during fiscal year 2016.
    (b) Report on Feasibility of Similar Surveys of Military Dependents 
and Department of Defense Contractors.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a report setting forth an assessment by the 
    Secretary of the feasibility of conducting recurring surveys of 
    each population specified in paragraph (2) on issues relating to 
    gender-based assault, harassment, and discrimination.
        (2) Covered populations.--The populations specified in this 
    paragraph are the following:
            (A) Military dependents.
            (B) Contractors of the Department of Defense.
SEC. 1074. REVISION TO STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS FOR AVIATION INSURANCE 
CLAIMS.
    (a) In General.--Section 44309 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(2), by adding at the end the following 
    new sentence: ``A civil action shall not be instituted against the 
    United States under this chapter unless the claimant first presents 
    the claim to the Secretary of Transportation and such claim is 
    finally denied by the Secretary in writing and notice of the denial 
    of such claim is sent by certified or registered mail.''; and
        (2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following new 
    subsection (c):
    ``(c) Time Requirements.--(1) Except as provided under paragraph 
(2), an insurance claim made under this chapter against the United 
States shall be forever barred unless it is presented in writing to the 
Secretary of Transportation within two years after the date on which 
the loss event occurred. Any civil action arising out of the denial of 
such a claim shall be filed by not later than six months after the date 
of the mailing, by certified or registered mail, of notice of final 
denial of the claim by the Secretary.
    ``(2)(A) For claims based on liability to persons with whom the 
insured has no privity of contract, an insurance claim made under the 
authority of this chapter against the United States shall be forever 
barred unless it is presented in writing to the Secretary of 
Transportation by not later than the earlier of--
        ``(i) the date that is 60 days after the date on which final 
    judgment is entered by a tribunal of competent jurisdiction; or
        ``(ii) the date that is six years after the date on which the 
    loss event occurred.
    ``(B) Any civil action arising out of the denial of such claim 
shall be filed by not later than six months after the date of mailing, 
by certified or registered mail, of notice of final denial of the claim 
by the Secretary.
    ``(3) A claim made under this chapter shall be deemed to be 
administratively denied if the Secretary fails to make a final 
disposition of the claim before the date that is 6 months after the 
date on which the claim is presented to the Secretary, unless the 
Secretary makes a different agreement with the claimant when there is 
good cause for an agreement.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to a claim arising after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.
SEC. 1075. PILOT PROGRAM FOR THE HUMAN TERRAIN SYSTEM.
    (a) Pilot Program Required.--The Secretary of the Army may carry 
out a pilot program under which the Secretary utilizes Human Terrain 
System assets in the United States Pacific Command area of 
responsibility to support phase 0 shaping operations and the theater 
security cooperation plans of the Commander of the United States 
Pacific Command.
    (b) Reports.--
        (1) Initial report.--Not later than one year after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit 
    to the congressional defense committees a report on the status of 
    the pilot program under this section. Such report shall include the 
    independent analysis and recommendations of the Commander of the 
    United States Pacific Command regarding the effectiveness of the 
    program and how it could be improved.
        (2) Final report.--Not later than December 1, 2016, the 
    Secretary of the Army shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a final report on the pilot program. Such report shall 
    include an analysis of the comparative value of human terrain 
    information relative to other analytic tools and techniques, 
    recommendations regarding expanding the program to include other 
    combatant commands, and any improvements to the program and 
    necessary resources that would enable expanding the program.
    (c) Termination.--The authority to carry out a pilot program under 
this section shall terminate on September 30, 2016.
SEC. 1076. CLARIFICATION OF POLICIES ON MANAGEMENT OF SPECIAL USE 
AIRSPACE OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Issuance of Guidance.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue 
guidance to clarify the policies of the Department of Defense with 
respect to--
        (1) the appropriate management of special use airspace managed 
    by the Department; and
        (2) governing access by non-Department users to such special 
    use airspace.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the congressional 
defense committees a briefing on the status of implementing the 
guidance issued under subsection (a).
SEC. 1077. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE POLICIES ON COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT IN 
DEPARTMENT COMMUNITY OUTREACH EVENTS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives 
a report setting forth such recommendations as the Secretary considers 
appropriate for modifications of the policies of the Department of 
Defense on the involvement of non-Federal entities in Department 
community outreach events (including air shows, parades, open houses, 
and performances by military musical units) that feature any unit, 
aircraft, vessel, equipment, or members of the Armed Forces in order to 
increase the involvement of non-Federal entities in such events.
    (b) Consultation.--The Secretary shall prepare the report required 
by subsection (a) in consultation with the Director of the Office of 
Government Ethics.
    (c) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) A description of current Department of Defense policies and 
    regulations on the acceptance and use of voluntary gifts, 
    donations, sponsorships, and other forms of support from non-
    Federal entities and persons for Department community outreach 
    events described in subsection (a), including the authorities or 
    requirements of the Department to accept fees for such air shows, 
    parades, open houses, and performances by military musical units.
        (2) Recommendations for modifications of such policies and 
    regulations in order to permit additional voluntary support and 
    funding from non-Federal entities for such events, including 
    recommendations on matters such as increased recognition of donors, 
    authority for military units to endorse the fundraising efforts of 
    certain donors, and authority for the Armed Forces to charge fees 
    or solicit and accept donations for parking and admission to such 
    events.
SEC. 1078. NOTIFICATION OF FOREIGN THREATS TO INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
SYSTEMS IMPACTING NATIONAL SECURITY.
    (a) Notification Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the Secretary of 
    Defense determines, through the use of open source information or 
    the use of existing authorities (including section 806 of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 
    111-383; 124 Stat. 4260; 10 U.S.C. 2304 note)), that there is 
    evidence of a national security threat described in paragraph (2), 
    the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
    a notification of such threat.
        (2) National security threat.--A national security threat 
    described in this paragraph is a threat to an information 
    technology or telecommunications component or network by an agent 
    of a foreign power in which the compromise of such technology, 
    component, or network poses a significant risk to the programs and 
    operations of the Department of Defense, as determined by the 
    Secretary of Defense.
        (3) Form.--A notification under this subsection shall be 
    submitted in classified form.
    (b) Action Plan Required.--In the event that a notification is 
submitted pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall work with the 
head of any department or agency affected by the national security 
threat to develop a plan of action for responding to the concerns 
leading to the notification.
    (c) Agent of a Foreign Power.--In this section, the term ``agent of 
a foreign power'' has the meaning given such term in section 101(b) of 
the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801(b)).
SEC. 1079. PILOT PROGRAM TO REHABILITATE AND MODIFY HOMES OF DISABLED 
AND LOW-INCOME VETERANS.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Disabled.--The term ``disabled'' means an individual with a 
    disability, as defined by section 12102 of title 42, United States 
    Code.
        (2) Eligible veteran.--The term ``eligible veteran'' means a 
    disabled or low-income veteran.
        (3) Energy efficient features or equipment.--The term ``energy 
    efficient features or equipment'' means features of, or equipment 
    in, a primary residence that help reduce the amount of electricity 
    used to heat, cool, or ventilate such residence, including 
    insulation, weatherstripping, air sealing, heating system repairs, 
    duct sealing, or other measures.
        (4) Low-income veteran.--The term ``low-income veteran'' means 
    a veteran whose income does not exceed 80 percent of the median 
    income for an area, as determined by the Secretary.
        (5) Nonprofit organization.--The term ``nonprofit 
    organization'' means an organization that is--
            (A) described in section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(19) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
            (B) exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
        (6) Primary residence.--
            (A) In general.--The term ``primary residence'' means a 
        single family house, a duplex, or a unit within a multiple-
        dwelling structure that is the principal dwelling of an 
        eligible veteran and is owned by such veteran or a family 
        member of such veteran.
            (B) Family member defined.--For purposes of this paragraph, 
        the term ``family member'' includes--
                (i) a spouse, child, grandchild, parent, or sibling;
                (ii) a spouse of such a child, grandchild, parent, or 
            sibling; or
                (iii) any individual related by blood or affinity whose 
            close association with a veteran is the equivalent of a 
            family relationship.
        (7) Qualified organization.--The term ``qualified 
    organization'' means a nonprofit organization that provides 
    nationwide or statewide programs that primarily serve veterans or 
    low-income individuals.
        (8) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    Housing and Urban Development.
        (9) Veteran.--The term ``veteran'' has the meaning given the 
    term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
        (10) Veterans service organization.--The term ``veterans 
    service organization'' means any organization recognized by the 
    Secretary of Veterans Affairs for the representation of veterans 
    under section 5902 of title 38, United States Code.
    (b) Establishment of a Pilot Program.--
        (1) Grant.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a pilot 
        program to award grants to qualified organizations to 
        rehabilitate and modify the primary residence of eligible 
        veterans.
            (B) Coordination.--The Secretary shall work in conjunction 
        with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish and oversee 
        the pilot program and to ensure that such program meets the 
        needs of eligible veterans.
            (C) Maximum grant.--A grant award under the pilot program 
        to any one qualified organization shall not exceed $1,000,000 
        in any one fiscal year, and such an award shall remain 
        available until expended by such organization.
        (2) Application.--
            (A) In general.--Each qualified organization that desires a 
        grant under the pilot program shall submit an application to 
        the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and, in addition to 
        the information required under subparagraph (B), accompanied by 
        such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
            (B) Contents.--Each application submitted under 
        subparagraph (A) shall include--
                (i) a plan of action detailing outreach initiatives;
                (ii) the approximate number of veterans the qualified 
            organization intends to serve using grant funds;
                (iii) a description of the type of work that will be 
            conducted, such as interior home modifications, energy 
            efficiency improvements, and other similar categories of 
            work; and
                (iv) a plan for working with the Department of Veterans 
            Affairs and veterans service organizations to identify 
            veterans who are not eligible for programs under chapter 21 
            of title 38, United States Code, and meet their needs.
        (3) Use of funds.--A grant award under the pilot program shall 
    be used--
            (A) to modify and rehabilitate the primary residence of an 
        eligible veteran, and may include--
                (i) installing wheelchair ramps, widening exterior and 
            interior doors, reconfigurating and re-equipping bathrooms 
            (which includes installing new fixtures and grab bars), 
            removing doorway thresholds, installing special lighting, 
            adding additional electrical outlets and electrical 
            service, and installing appropriate floor coverings to--

                    (I) accommodate the functional limitations that 
                result from having a disability; or
                    (II) if such residence does not have modifications 
                necessary to reduce the chances that an elderly, but 
                not disabled person, will fall in their home, reduce 
                the risks of such an elderly person from falling;

                (ii) rehabilitating such residence that is in a state 
            of interior or exterior disrepair; and
                (iii) installing energy efficient features or equipment 
            if--

                    (I) an eligible veteran's monthly utility costs for 
                such residence is more than 5 percent of such veteran's 
                monthly income; and
                    (II) an energy audit of such residence indicates 
                that the installation of energy efficient features or 
                equipment will reduce such costs by 10 percent or more; 
                and

            (B) in connection with modification and rehabilitation 
        services provided under the pilot program, to provide 
        technical, administrative, and training support to an affiliate 
        of a qualified organization receiving a grant under such pilot 
        program.
        (4) Limitation on use of funds.--Funds may be expended under 
    the pilot program only for the benefit of an eligible veteran who 
    the Secretary determines is residing in and reasonably intends to 
    continue residing in a primary residence owned by such veteran or 
    by a member of such veteran's family. The Secretary shall make this 
    determination on the basis of a certification by the veteran or a 
    member of the veteran's family that the veteran intends to continue 
    residing in the primary residence for a sufficient period of time 
    to be determined by the Secretary.
        (5) Oversight.--The Secretary shall direct the oversight of the 
    grant funds for the pilot program so that such funds are used 
    efficiently until expended to fulfill the purpose of addressing the 
    adaptive housing needs of eligible veterans.
        (6) Matching funds.--
            (A) In general.--A qualified organization receiving a grant 
        under the pilot program shall contribute towards the housing 
        modification and rehabilitation services provided to eligible 
        veterans an amount equal to not less than 50 percent of the 
        grant award received by such organization.
            (B) In-kind contributions.--In order to meet the 
        requirement under subparagraph (A), such organization may 
        arrange for in-kind contributions.
        (7) Limitation cost to the veterans.--A qualified organization 
    receiving a grant under the pilot program shall modify or 
    rehabilitate the primary residence of an eligible veteran at no 
    cost to such veteran (including application fees) or at a cost such 
    that such veteran pays no more than 30 percent of his or her income 
    in housing costs during any month.
        (8) Reports.--
            (A) Annual report.--The Secretary shall submit to Congress, 
        on an annual basis, a report that provides, with respect to the 
        year for which such report is written--
                (i) the number of eligible veterans provided assistance 
            under the pilot program;
                (ii) the socioeconomic characteristics of such 
            veterans, including their gender, age, race, and ethnicity;
                (iii) the total number, types, and locations of 
            entities contracted under such program to administer the 
            grant funding;
                (iv) the amount of matching funds and in-kind 
            contributions raised with each grant;
                (v) a description of the housing rehabilitation and 
            modification services provided, costs saved, and actions 
            taken under such program;
                (vi) a description of the outreach initiatives 
            implemented by the Secretary to educate the general public 
            and eligible entities about such program;
                (vii) a description of the outreach initiatives 
            instituted by grant recipients to engage eligible veterans 
            and veteran service organizations in projects utilizing 
            grant funds under such program;
                (viii) a description of the outreach initiatives 
            instituted by grant recipients to identify eligible 
            veterans and their families; and
                (ix) any other information that the Secretary considers 
            relevant in assessing such program.
            (B) Final report.--Not later than 6 months after the 
        completion of the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to 
        Congress a report that provides such information that the 
        Secretary considers relevant in assessing the pilot program.
            (C) Inspector general report.--Not later than March 31, 
        2019, the Inspector General of the Department of Housing and 
        Urban Development shall submit to the Chairmen and Ranking 
        Members of the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 
        of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services of the 
        House of Representatives a report containing a review of--
                (i) the use of appropriated funds by the Secretary and 
            by grantees under the pilot program; and
                (ii) oversight and accountability of grantees under the 
            pilot program.
        (9) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized to 
    be appropriated for the Department of Housing and Urban Development 
    for carrying out this section $4,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
    2015 through 2019.

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

Sec. 1101. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation on 
          premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for Federal 
          civilian employees working overseas.
Sec. 1102. One-year extension of discretionary authority to grant 
          allowances, benefits, and gratuities to personnel on official 
          duty in a combat zone.
Sec. 1103. Revision to list of science and technology reinvention 
          laboratories.
Sec. 1104. Extension and modification of experimental program for 
          scientific and technical personnel.
Sec. 1105. Temporary authorities for certain positions at Department of 
          Defense research and engineering facilities.
Sec. 1106. Rate of overtime pay for Department of the Navy employees 
          performing work aboard or dockside in support of the nuclear 
          aircraft carrier forward deployed in Japan.
Sec. 1107. Extension of part-time reemployment authority.
Sec. 1108. Personnel authorities for civilian personnel for the United 
          States Cyber Command and the cyber component headquarters of 
          the military departments.
SEC. 1101. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE ANNUAL LIMITATION 
ON PREMIUM PAY AND AGGREGATE LIMITATION ON PAY FOR FEDERAL CIVILIAN 
EMPLOYEES WORKING OVERSEAS.
    Effective January 1, 2015, section 1101(a) of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
110-417; 122 Stat. 4615), as most recently amended by section 1101 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 
113-66), is further amended by striking ``through 2014'' and inserting 
``through 2015''.
SEC. 1102. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY TO GRANT 
ALLOWANCES, BENEFITS, AND GRATUITIES TO PERSONNEL ON OFFICIAL DUTY IN A 
COMBAT ZONE.
    Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane 
Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234; 120 Stat. 443), as added by section 
1102 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4616) and most recently 
amended by section 1102 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66), is further amended by striking 
``2015'' and inserting ``2016''.
SEC. 1103. REVISION TO LIST OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY REINVENTION 
LABORATORIES.
    Section 1105(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2487; 10 U.S.C. 2358 
note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
        ``(18) The Army Research Institute for the Behavioral and 
    Social Sciences.
        ``(19) The Space and Missile Defense Command Technical 
    Center.''.
SEC. 1104. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF EXPERIMENTAL PROGRAM FOR 
SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL PERSONNEL.
    (a) Positions Covered by Authority.--
        (1) In general.--Subsection (b)(1) of section 1101 of the Strom 
    Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (5 
    U.S.C. 3104 note) is amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``60 scientific and 
        engineering positions'' and inserting ``100 scientific and 
        engineering positions'';
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by adding ``and'' at the end;
            (C) by striking subparagraphs (C) and (D); and
            (D) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (C).
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Subsection (c)(2) of such section is 
    amended by striking ``the Defense Advanced Research Projects 
    Agency'' and inserting ``the Department of Defense''.
    (b) Additional Payments.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``12-month period'' and 
    inserting ``calendar year''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``fiscal year'' and inserting 
    ``calendar year''.
    (c) Extension.--Subsection (e)(1) of such section is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2016'' and inserting ``September 30, 2019''.
SEC. 1105. TEMPORARY AUTHORITIES FOR CERTAIN POSITIONS AT DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING FACILITIES.
    Section 1107 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following:
        ``(3) Students enrolled in scientific and engineering 
    programs.--The director of any STRL may appoint qualified 
    candidates enrolled in a program of undergraduate or graduate 
    instruction leading to a bachelor's or an advanced degree in a 
    scientific, technical, engineering or mathematical course of study 
    at an institution of higher education (as that term is defined in 
    section 101 and 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
    1001)) to positions described in paragraph (3) of subsection (b) as 
    an employee in a laboratory described in that paragraph without 
    regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5, 
    United States Code (other than sections 3303 and 3328 of such 
    title).'';
        (2) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following:
        ``(3) Candidates enrolled in scientific and engineering 
    programs.--The positions described in this paragraph are scientific 
    and engineering positions that may be temporary or term in any 
    laboratory designated by section 1105(a) of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
    Stat. 2486; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) as a Department of Defense science 
    and technology reinvention laboratory.''; and
        (3) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following:
        ``(3) In the case of a laboratory described in subsection 
    (b)(3), with respect to appointment authority under subsection 
    (a)(3), the number equal to 3 percent of the total number of 
    scientific and engineering positions in such laboratory that are 
    filled as of the close of the fiscal year last ending before the 
    start of such calendar year.''.
SEC. 1106. RATE OF OVERTIME PAY FOR DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY EMPLOYEES 
PERFORMING WORK ABOARD OR DOCKSIDE IN SUPPORT OF THE NUCLEAR AIRCRAFT 
CARRIER FORWARD DEPLOYED IN JAPAN.
    (a) In General.--Subparagraph (B) of section 5542(a)(6) of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``2014'' and inserting 
``2015''.
    (b) Limitation on Overtime Pay.--Notwithstanding the authority 
provided by such section (as amended by subsection (a)), during fiscal 
year 2015 the Secretary of the Navy may not pay more than $250,000 in 
overtime pay under such section until the Director of the Office of 
Personnel Management submits a report containing the information 
described in section 1105(b)(2) of Public Law 111-383, the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011.
SEC. 1107. EXTENSION OF PART-TIME REEMPLOYMENT AUTHORITY.
    (a) CSRS.--Section 8344(l)(7) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``5 years after the date of enactment of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010'' and inserting 
``on December 31, 2019''.
    (b) FERS.--Section 8468(i)(7) of such title is amended by striking 
``5 years after the date of enactment of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010'' and inserting ``on December 
31, 2019''.
    (c) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) 
shall be effective as of October 28, 2014.
SEC. 1108. PERSONNEL AUTHORITIES FOR CIVILIAN PERSONNEL FOR THE UNITED 
STATES CYBER COMMAND AND THE CYBER COMPONENT HEADQUARTERS OF THE 
MILITARY DEPARTMENTS.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Principal Cyber Advisor to the Secretary of Defense shall--
        (1) identify improvements to be made to the employment, 
    compensation, and promotion authorities of the Department of 
    Defense to meet the needs of the United States Cyber Command and 
    the cyber component headquarters of the military departments for 
    obtaining and retaining civilian personnel with the skills and 
    experience required to support the missions and responsibilities of 
    those organizations;
        (2) identify the additional employment, compensation, and 
    promotion authorities necessary to ensure that the United States 
    Cyber Command and the cyber component headquarters of the military 
    departments have a civilian workforce able to support the missions 
    and responsibilities of those organizations; and
        (3) submit to the Secretary recommendations for administrative 
    and legislative actions, including actions in connection with 
    authorities identified pursuant to paragraph (2), to ensure that 
    the United States Cyber Command and the cyber component 
    headquarters of the military departments have a civilian workforce 
    able to support the missions and responsibilities of those 
    organizations.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                   Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1201. Modification and extension of Global Security Contingency 
          Fund.
Sec. 1202. Notice to Congress on certain assistance under authority to 
          conduct activities to enhance the capability of foreign 
          countries to respond to incidents involving weapons of mass 
          destruction.
Sec. 1203. Enhanced authority for provision of support to foreign 
          military liaison officers of foreign countries while assigned 
          to the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1204. Prohibition on use of funds for assistance to units of 
          foreign security forces that have committed a gross violation 
          of human rights.
Sec. 1205. Codification and enhancement of authority to build the 
          capacity of foreign security forces.
Sec. 1206. Training of security forces and associated security 
          ministries of foreign countries to promote respect for the 
          rule of law and human rights.
Sec. 1207. Cross servicing agreements for loan of personnel protection 
          and personnel survivability equipment in coalition operations.
Sec. 1208. Extension and modification of authority for support of 
          special operations to combat terrorism.
Sec. 1209. Authority to provide assistance to the vetted Syrian 
          opposition.
Sec. 1210. Provision of logistic support for the conveyance of certain 
          defense articles to foreign forces training with the United 
          States Armed Forces.
Sec. 1211. Biennial report on programs carried out by the Department of 
          Defense to provide training, equipment, or other assistance or 
          reimbursement to foreign security forces.

     Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq

Sec. 1221. Commanders' Emergency Response Program in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1222. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of 
          certain coalition nations for support provided to United 
          States military operations.
Sec. 1223. One-year extension of logistical support for coalition forces 
          supporting certain United States military operations.
Sec. 1224. United States plan for sustaining the Afghanistan National 
          Security Forces through the end of fiscal year 2017.
Sec. 1225. Semiannual report on enhancing security and stability in 
          Afghanistan.
Sec. 1226. Sense of Congress on stability and sovereignty of 
          Afghanistan.
Sec. 1227. Extension of Afghan Special Immigrant Program.
Sec. 1228. Independent assessment of United States efforts against al-
          Qaeda.
Sec. 1229. Sense of Congress on security of Afghan women.
Sec. 1230. Review process for use of United States funds for 
          construction projects in Afghanistan that cannot be physically 
          accessed by United States Government personnel.
Sec. 1231. Extension of authority to transfer defense articles and 
          provide defense services to the military and security forces 
          of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1232. One-year extension of authority to use funds for 
          reintegration activities in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1233. Clearance of unexploded ordnance on former United States 
          training ranges in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1234. Report on impact of end of major combat operations in 
          Afghanistan on authority to use military force.
Sec. 1235. Report on bilateral security cooperation with Pakistan.
Sec. 1236. Authority to provide assistance to counter the Islamic State 
          in Iraq and the Levant.
Sec. 1237. Extension and modification of authority to support operations 
          and activities of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq.

         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

Sec. 1241. Limitation on military cooperation between the United States 
          and the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1242. Notification and assessment of proposal to modify or 
          introduce new aircraft or sensors for flight by the Russian 
          Federation under Open Skies Treaty.
Sec. 1243. Limitations on providing certain missile defense information 
          to the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1244. Report on non-compliance by the Russian Federation with its 
          obligations under the INF Treaty.
Sec. 1245. Annual report on military and security developments involving 
          the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1246. Prohibition on use of funds to enter into contracts or other 
          agreements with Rosoboronexport.
Sec. 1247. Report on the New START Treaty.

         Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Asia-Pacific Region

Sec. 1251. Strategy to prioritize United States defense interests in the 
          Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 1252. Modifications to annual report on military and security 
          developments involving the People's Republic of China.
Sec. 1253. Military-to-military engagement with the Government of Burma.
Sec. 1254. Report on Department of Defense munitions strategy of the 
          United States Pacific Command.
Sec. 1255. Missile defense cooperation in Northeast Asia.
Sec. 1256. Sense of Congress and report on Taiwan and its contribution 
          to regional peace and stability.
Sec. 1257. Independent assessment of the ability of the Department of 
          Defense to counter anti-access and area-denial strategies, 
          capabilities, and other key technologies of potential 
          adversaries.
Sec. 1258. Sense of Congress reaffirming security cooperation with Japan 
          and the Republic of Korea.
Sec. 1259. Report on maritime security strategy in the Asia-Pacific 
          region.
Sec. 1259A. Sense of Congress on Taiwan maritime capabilities and 
          exercise participation.
Sec. 1259B. Modification of matters for discussion in annual reports of 
          United States-China Economic and Security Review Commission.

                        Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 1261. One-year extension of authorization for non-conventional 
          assisted recovery capabilities.
Sec. 1262. Modification of national security planning guidance to deny 
          safe havens to al-Qaeda and its violent extremist affiliates.
Sec. 1263. Enhanced authority to acquire goods and services of Djibouti 
          in support of Department of Defense activities in United 
          States Africa Command area of responsibility.
Sec. 1264. Treatment of the Kurdistan Democratic Party and the Patriotic 
          Union of Kurdistan under the Immigration and Nationality Act.
Sec. 1265. Prohibition on integration of missile defense systems of 
          China into missile defense systems of United States and sense 
          of Congress concerning integration of missile defense systems 
          of Russia into missile defense systems of NATO.
Sec. 1266. Limitation on availability of funds to implement the Arms 
          Trade Treaty.
Sec. 1267. Notification and review of potentially significant arms 
          control noncompliance.
Sec. 1268. Inter-European Air Forces Academy.
Sec. 1269. Department of Defense support to security of United States 
          diplomatic facilities.
Sec. 1270. Information on sanctioned persons and businesses through the 
          Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System.
Sec. 1271. Reports on nuclear program of Iran.
Sec. 1272. Sense of Congress on defense modernization by NATO countries.
Sec. 1273. Report on protection of cultural property in event of armed 
          conflict.
Sec. 1274. United States strategy and plans for enhancing security and 
          stability in Europe.
Sec. 1275. Report on military assistance to Ukraine.
Sec. 1276. Sense of Congress on efforts to remove Joseph Kony from the 
          battlefield and end the atrocities of the Lord's Resistance 
          Army.
Sec. 1277. Extension of annual reports on the military power of Iran.
Sec. 1278. Report and strategy regarding North Africa, West Africa, and 
          the Sahel.
Sec. 1279. Rule of construction.
Sec. 1280. Approval of the Amendment to the Agreement Between the 
          Government of the United States of America and the Government 
          of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
          for Cooperation on the Uses of Atomic Energy for Mutual 
          Defense Purposes.

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

SEC. 1201. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF GLOBAL SECURITY CONTINGENCY 
FUND.
    (a) Revisions to Global Security Contingency Fund.--Subsection 
(c)(1) of section 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1625; 22 U.S.C. 2151 
note) is amended by striking ``the provision of equipment, supplies, 
and training.'' and inserting the following: ``the provision of the 
following:
            ``(A) Equipment, including routine maintenance and repair 
        of such equipment.
            ``(B) Supplies.
            ``(C) With respect to amounts in the Fund appropriated or 
        transferred into the Fund after the date of the enactment of 
        the Carl Levin and Howard P. `Buck' McKeon National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015, small-scale 
        construction not exceeding $750,000 on a per-project basis.
            ``(D) Training.''.
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Subsection (i) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``Amounts'' and inserting the following:
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
    amounts'';
        (2) by striking ``September 30, 2015'' and inserting 
    ``September 30, 2017''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(2) Exception.--Amounts appropriated and transferred to the 
    Fund before the date of the enactment of the Carl Levin and Howard 
    P. `Buck' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2015 shall remain available for obligation and expenditure after 
    September 30, 2015, only for activities under programs commenced 
    under subsection (b) before September 30, 2015.''.
    (c) Expiration.--Subsection (p) of such section, as amended by 
section 1202(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 894), is further amended--
        (1) by striking ``September 30, 2015'' and inserting 
    ``September 30, 2017'';
        (2) by striking ``fiscal years 2012 through 2015'' and 
    inserting ``fiscal years 2012 through 2017''; and
        (3) by adding at the end before the period the following: ``and 
    subject to the requirements contained in paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
    subsection (i)''.
SEC. 1202. NOTICE TO CONGRESS ON CERTAIN ASSISTANCE UNDER AUTHORITY TO 
CONDUCT ACTIVITIES TO ENHANCE THE CAPABILITY OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES TO 
RESPOND TO INCIDENTS INVOLVING WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION.
    Section 1204(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 896; 10 U.S.C. 401 note) 
is amended by inserting after ``congressional defense committees'' the 
following: ``and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives''.
SEC. 1203. ENHANCED AUTHORITY FOR PROVISION OF SUPPORT TO FOREIGN 
MILITARY LIAISON OFFICERS OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES WHILE ASSIGNED TO THE 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Eligibility.--Subsection (a) of section 1051a of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``The Secretary of Defense'' and inserting 
        ``Subject to subsection (d), the Secretary of Defense''; and
            (B) by striking ``involved in a military operation with the 
        United States'';
        (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``in connection with the 
    planning for, or conduct of, a military operation''; and
        (3) in paragraph (2), by striking ``To the headquarters of'' 
    and all that follows and inserting ``To the Joint Staff.''.
    (b) Travel, Subsistence, and Medical Care Expenses.--Subsection (b) 
of such section is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``to the headquarters of a combatant 
        command''; and
            (B) by inserting ``or by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
        of Staff, as appropriate'' before the period at the end; and
        (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``if such travel'' and all 
    that follows and inserting ``if such travel meets each of the 
    following conditions:
        ``(A) The travel is in support of the national interests of the 
    United States.
        ``(B) The commander of the relevant combatant command or the 
    Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, as applicable, directs 
    round-trip travel from the assigned location to one or more travel 
    locations.''.
    (c) Terms of Reimbursement.--Subsection (c) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``To the extent that the Secretary determines 
    appropriate, the'' and inserting ``The''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The 
    terms of reimbursement shall be specified in the appropriate 
    agreement used to assign the liaison officer to a combatant command 
    or to the Joint Staff.''.
    (d) Limitation and Oversight.--Such section, as so amended, is 
further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (f); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(d) Limitation and Oversight.--(1) The amount of unreimbursed 
support for any liaison officer supported under subsection (b)(1) in 
any fiscal year may not exceed $200,000 (in fiscal year 2014 constant 
dollars).
    ``(2) The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall be 
responsible for implementing the authority under this section.''.
    (e) Secretary of State Coordination.--Such section, as so amended, 
is further amended by inserting after subsection (d), as added by 
subsection (d)(2) of this section, the following new subsection (e):
    ``(e) Secretary of State Coordination.--The authority of the 
Secretary of Defense to provide administrative services and support 
under subsection (a) for the performance of duties by a liaison officer 
of another nation may be exercised only with respect to a liaison 
officer of another nation whose assignment as described in that 
subsection is accepted by the Secretary of Defense with the 
coordination of the Secretary of State.''.
    (f) Definition.--Subsection (f) of such section (as so 
redesignated) is amended by inserting ``training programs conducted to 
familiarize, orient, or certify liaison personnel regarding unique 
aspects of the assignments of the liaison personnel,'' after ``police 
protection,''.
SEC. 1204. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR ASSISTANCE TO UNITS OF 
FOREIGN SECURITY FORCES THAT HAVE COMMITTED A GROSS VIOLATION OF HUMAN 
RIGHTS.
    (a) Prohibition.--
        (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 134 of title 10, 
    United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
    new section:
``Sec. 2249e. Prohibition on use of funds for assistance to units of 
     foreign security forces that have committed a gross violation of 
     human rights
    ``(a) In General.--(1) Of the amounts made available to the 
Department of Defense, none may be used for any training, equipment, or 
other assistance for a unit of a foreign security force if the 
Secretary of Defense has credible information that the unit has 
committed a gross violation of human rights.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the 
Secretary of State, ensure that prior to a decision to provide any 
training, equipment, or other assistance to a unit of a foreign 
security force full consideration is given to any credible information 
available to the Department of State relating to human rights 
violations by such unit.
    ``(b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a)(1) shall not 
apply if the Secretary of Defense, after consultation with the 
Secretary of State, determines that the government of such country has 
taken all necessary corrective steps, or if the equipment or other 
assistance is necessary to assist in disaster relief operations or 
other humanitarian or national security emergencies.
    ``(c) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense, after consultation with 
the Secretary of State, may waive the prohibition in subsection (a)(1) 
if the Secretary determines that the waiver is required by 
extraordinary circumstances.
    ``(d) Procedures.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish, and 
periodically update, procedures to ensure that any information in the 
possession of the Department of Defense about gross violations of human 
rights by units of foreign security forces is shared on a timely basis 
with the Department of State.
    ``(e) Report.--Not later than 15 days after the application of any 
exception under subsection (b) or the exercise of any waiver under 
subsection (c), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report--
        ``(1) in the case of an exception under subsection (b), 
    providing notice of the use of the exception and stating the 
    grounds for the exception; and
        ``(2) in the case of a waiver under subsection (c), 
    describing--
            ``(A) the information relating to the gross violation of 
        human rights;
            ``(B) the extraordinary circumstances that necessitate the 
        waiver;
            ``(C) the purpose and duration of the training, equipment, 
        or other assistance; and
            ``(D) the United States forces and the foreign security 
        force unit involved.
    ``(f) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
        ``(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        ``(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of subchapter I of chapter 134 of such title is amended by adding 
    at the end the following new item:

``2249e. Prohibition on use of funds for assistance to units of foreign 
          security forces that have committed a gross violation of human 
          rights.''.

    (b) Annual Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 31, 2015, and every March 
    31 thereafter through 2024, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
    to the appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth 
    for the preceding fiscal year the following:
            (A) The total number of cases submitted for vetting for 
        purposes of section 2249e of title 10, United States Code (as 
        added by subsection (a)), and the total number of such cases 
        approved, or suspended or rejected for human rights reasons, 
        non-human rights reasons, or administrative reasons.
            (B) In the case of units rejected for non-human rights 
        reasons, a detailed description of the reasons relating to the 
        rejection.
            (C) A description of the interagency processes that were 
        used to evaluate compliance with requirements to conduct 
        vetting.
            (D) An addendum that includes any comments by the 
        commanders of the combatant commands about the impact of 
        section 2249e of title 10, United States Code (as so added), on 
        their theater security cooperation plan.
            (E) Such other matters with respect to the administration 
        of section 2249e of title 10, United States Code (as so added), 
        as the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (2) Form.--Each report under this subsection shall be submitted 
    in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
        (3) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' has the 
    meaning given that term in subsection (f) of section 2249e of title 
    10, United States Code (as so added).
SEC. 1205. CODIFICATION AND ENHANCEMENT OF AUTHORITY TO BUILD THE 
CAPACITY OF FOREIGN SECURITY FORCES.
    (a) Codification, Extension, and Enhancement of Authority.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 136 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2282. Authority to build the capacity of foreign security forces
    ``(a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of 
the Secretary of State, is authorized to conduct or support a program 
or programs as follows:
        ``(1) To build the capacity of a foreign country's national 
    military forces in order for that country to--
            ``(A) conduct counterterrorism operations; or
            ``(B) participate in or support on-going allied or 
        coalition military or stability operations that benefit the 
        national security interests of the United States.
        ``(2) To build the capacity of a foreign country's national 
    maritime or border security forces to conduct counterterrorism 
    operations.
        ``(3) To build the capacity of a foreign country's national-
    level security forces that have among their functional 
    responsibilities a counterterrorism mission in order for such 
    forces to conduct counterterrorism operations.
    ``(b) Types of Capacity Building.--
        ``(1) Authorized elements.--A program under subsection (a) may 
    include the provision of equipment, supplies, training, defense 
    services, and small-scale military construction.
        ``(2) Required elements.--A program under subsection (a) shall 
    include elements that promote the following:
            ``(A) Observance of and respect for human rights and 
        fundamental freedoms.
            ``(B) Respect for civilian control of the military.
    ``(c) Limitations.--
        ``(1) Annual funding limitation.--The Secretary of Defense may 
    use amounts specifically authorized and appropriated or otherwise 
    made available to carry out programs under this section on an 
    annual basis to carry out programs authorized by subsection (a).
        ``(2) Assistance otherwise prohibited by law.--The Secretary of 
    Defense may not use the authority in subsection (a) to provide any 
    type of assistance described in subsection (b) that is otherwise 
    prohibited by any provision of law.
        ``(3) Limitation on eligible countries.--The Secretary of 
    Defense may not use the authority in subsection (a) to provide 
    assistance described in subsection (b) to any foreign country that 
    is otherwise prohibited from receiving such type of assistance 
    under any other provision of law.
        ``(4) Availability of funds for activities across fiscal 
    years.--
            ``(A) In general.--Amounts made available in a fiscal year 
        to carry out the authority in subsection (a) may be used for 
        programs under that authority that begin in the fiscal year 
        such amounts are made available but end in the next fiscal 
        year.
            ``(B) Achievement of full operational capability.--If, in 
        accordance with subparagraph (A), equipment is delivered under 
        a program under the authority in subsection (a) in the fiscal 
        year after the fiscal year in which the program begins, amounts 
        for supplies, training, defense services, and small-scale 
        military construction associated with such equipment and 
        necessary to ensure that the recipient unit achieves full 
        operational capability for such equipment may be used in the 
        fiscal year in which the foreign country takes receipt of such 
        equipment and in the next fiscal year.
        ``(5) Limitations on availability of funds for small-scale 
    military construction.--
            ``(A) Activities under particular programs.--The amount 
        that may be obligated or expended for small-scale military 
        construction activities under any particular program authorized 
        under subsection (a) may not exceed $750,000.
            ``(B) Activities under all programs.--The amount that may 
        be obligated or expended for small-scale military construction 
        activities during a fiscal year for all programs authorized 
        under subsection (a) during that fiscal year may not exceed up 
        to five percent of the amount made available in such fiscal 
        year to carry out the authority in subsection (a).
    ``(d) Formulation and Execution of Program.--The Secretary of 
Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly formulate any program 
under subsection (a). The Secretary of Defense shall coordinate with 
the Secretary of State in the implementation of any program under 
subsection (a).
    ``(e) Congressional Notification.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not less than 15 days before initiating 
    activities under a program under subsection (a), the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
    notice of the following:
            ``(A) The country whose capacity to engage in activities in 
        subsection (a) will be built under the program.
            ``(B) The budget, implementation timeline with milestones, 
        anticipated delivery schedule for assistance, military 
        department responsible for management and associated program 
        executive office, and completion date for the program.
            ``(C) The source and planned expenditure of funds to 
        complete the program.
            ``(D) A description of the arrangements, if any, for the 
        sustainment of the program and the source of funds to support 
        sustainment of the capabilities and performance outcomes 
        achieved under the program beyond its completion date, if 
        applicable.
            ``(E) A description of the program objectives and 
        assessment framework to be used to develop capability and 
        performance metrics associated with operational outcomes for 
        the recipient unit.
            ``(F) Information, including the amount, type, and purpose, 
        on the assistance provided the country during the three 
        preceding fiscal years under each of the following programs, 
        accounts, or activities:
                ``(i) A program under this section.
                ``(ii) The Foreign Military Financing program under the 
            Arms Export Control Act.
                ``(iii) Peacekeeping Operations.
                ``(iv) The International Narcotics Control and Law 
            Enforcement (INCLE) program under section 481 of the 
            Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291).
                ``(v) Nonproliferation, Anti-Terrorism, Demining, and 
            Related Programs (NADR).
                ``(vi) Counterdrug activities authorized by section 
            1004 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
            Year 1991 (10 U.S.C. 374 note) and section 1033 of the 
            National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998.
                ``(vii) Any other significant program, account, or 
            activity for the provision of security assistance that the 
            Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State consider 
            appropriate.
            ``(G) An assessment of the capacity of the recipient 
        country to absorb assistance under the program.
            ``(H) An assessment of the manner in which the program fits 
        into the theater security cooperation strategy of the 
        applicable geographic combatant command.
        ``(2) Coordination with secretary of state.--Any notice under 
    paragraph (1) shall be prepared in coordination with the Secretary 
    of State.
    ``(f) Assessments of Programs.--Amounts available to conduct or 
support programs under subsection (a) shall be available to the 
Secretary of Defense to conduct assessments and determine the 
effectiveness of such programs in building the operational capacity and 
performance of the recipient units concerned.
    ``(g) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
        ``(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        ``(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 136 of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
    following new item:

``2282. Authority to build the capacity of foreign security forces.''.

    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Section 943(g)(1) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 
    Stat. 4578), as most recently amended by section 1205(f) of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 
    112-81; 125 Stat. 1624), is further amended by striking ``sections 
    1206 and 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
    Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 119 Stat. 3456 and 3458)'' and 
    inserting ``section 2282 of title 10, United States Code, and 
    section 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
    Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 119 Stat. 3458)''.
        (2) Section 1209(b)(1)(A) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 368), as 
    most recently amended by section 1203(a) of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
    Stat. 2512), is further amended by striking ``section 1206 of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 
    109-163; 119 Stat. 3456)'' and inserting ``section 2282 of title 
    10, United States Code''.
    (c) Repeal of Superseded Authority.--Section 1206 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163) is 
repealed.
    (d) Funding.--
        (1) In general.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
    for fiscal year 2015 by section 301 and available for operation and 
    maintenance as specified in the funding table in section 4301, up 
    to $350,000,000 may be used for programs under subsection (a) of 
    section 2282 of title 10, United States Code (as added by 
    subsection (a) of this section).
        (2) Limitation on amount for building capacity to participate 
    in allied or coalition military or stability operations.--Of the 
    amount available under paragraph (1) for fiscal year 2015, not more 
    than $150,000,000 may be used in such fiscal year for purposes 
    described in subsection (a)(1)(B) of section 2282 of title 10, 
    United States Code (as so added).
    (e) Annual Secretary of Defense Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
    of fiscal years 2015 through 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
    summarizing the findings of the assessments of programs carried out 
    under subsection (f) of section 2282 of title 10, United States 
    Code (as so added), during such fiscal year.
        (2) Elements.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall include, 
    for each program assessed under such subsection (f) during the 
    fiscal year covered by such report, the following:
            (A) A description of the nature and the extent of the 
        potential or actual terrorist threat, if any, that the program 
        is intended to address.
            (B) A description of the program, including the objectives 
        of the program, the types of recipient country units receiving 
        assistance under the program, and the baseline operational 
        capability and performance of the units receiving assistance 
        under the program before the commencement of receipt of 
        assistance under the program.
            (C) A description of the extent to which the program is 
        implemented by United States Government personnel or 
        contractors.
            (D) A description of the assessment framework to be used to 
        develop capability and performance metrics associated with 
        operational outcomes for units receiving assistance under the 
        program.
            (E) An assessment of the program using the assessment 
        framework described in subparagraph (D).
            (F) An assessment of the effectiveness of the program in 
        achieving its intended purpose.
    (f) Biennial Comptroller General of the United States Audits.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 31 of each of 2016, 2018 
    and 2020, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit 
    to the appropriate committees of Congress an audit of such program 
    or programs conducted or supported pursuant to section 2282 of 
    title 10, United States Code (as so added), during the preceding 
    two fiscal years as the Comptroller General shall select for 
    purposes of such report.
        (2) Elements.--Each report should, to the extent information is 
    available, include, for the program or programs covered by such 
    report, the following:
            (A) A description of the program or programs, including--
                (i) the objectives of the program or programs;
                (ii) the types of units receiving assistance under the 
            program or programs;
                (iii) the delivery and completion schedules for 
            assistance under the program or programs; and
                (iv) the baseline operational capability and 
            performance of the units receiving assistance under the 
            program or programs before the commencement of receipt of 
            assistance under the program or programs.
            (B) An assessment of the capacity of each recipient country 
        to absorb assistance under the program or programs.
            (C) An assessment of the arrangements, if any, for the 
        sustainment of the program or programs, including any source of 
        funds to support sustainment of the capabilities and 
        performance outcomes achieved under the program or program 
        beyond completion date, if applicable.
            (D) An assessment of the effectiveness of the program or 
        programs in achieving their intended purpose.
            (E) Such other matters as the Comptroller considers 
        appropriate.
    (g) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In subsections (e) 
and (f), the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' has the 
meaning given that term in subsection (g) of section 2282 of title 10, 
United States Code (as so added).
SEC. 1206. TRAINING OF SECURITY FORCES AND ASSOCIATED SECURITY 
MINISTRIES OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES TO PROMOTE RESPECT FOR THE RULE OF LAW 
AND HUMAN RIGHTS.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense is authorized to conduct 
human rights training of security forces and associated security 
ministries of foreign countries.
    (b) Construction With Limitation on Use of Funds.--Human rights 
training authorized by this section may be conducted for security 
forces otherwise prohibited from receiving such training under any 
provision of law only if--
        (1) such training is conducted in the country of origin of the 
    security forces;
        (2) such training is withheld from any individual of a unit 
    when there is credible information that such individual has 
    committed a gross violation of human rights or has commanded a unit 
    that has committed a gross violation of human rights;
        (3) such training may be considered a corrective step, but is 
    not sufficient for meeting the accountability requirement under the 
    exception established in subsection (b) of section 2249e of title 
    10, United States Code (as added by section 1204(a) of this Act); 
    and
        (4) reasonable efforts have been made to assist the foreign 
    country to take all necessary corrective steps regarding a gross 
    violation of human rights with respect to the unit, including using 
    funds authorized by this Act to provide technical assistance or 
    other types of support for accountability.
    (c) Role of the Secretary of State.--
        (1) Concurrence.--Training activities may be conducted under 
    this section only with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.
        (2) Consultation.--The Secretary of Defense shall consult with 
    the Secretary of State on the content of the training, the methods 
    of instruction to be provided, and the intended beneficiaries of 
    training conducted under this section.
    (d) Authorized Activities.--Human rights training authorized by 
this section may include associated activities and expenses necessary 
for the conduct of training and assessments designed to further the 
purposes of this section, including technical assistance or other types 
of support for accountability.
    (e) Annual Reports.--Not later than March 31 each year through 
2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report on the use of the authority in this 
section during the preceding fiscal year. Each report shall include 
information on any human rights training (as defined in subsection (f)) 
or other assistance that was provided during the fiscal year to foreign 
security forces.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section
        (1) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.
        (2) The term ``human rights training'' means training for the 
    purpose of directly improving the conduct of foreign security 
    forces to--
            (A) prevent gross violations of human rights and support 
        accountability for such violations;
            (B) strengthen compliance with the laws of armed conflict 
        and respect for civilian control over the military;
            (C) promote and assist in the establishment of a military 
        justice system and other mechanisms for accountability; and
            (D) prevent the use of child soldiers.
    (g) Sunset.--The authority in subsection (a) shall expire on 
September 30, 2020.
SEC. 1207. CROSS SERVICING AGREEMENTS FOR LOAN OF PERSONNEL PROTECTION 
AND PERSONNEL SURVIVABILITY EQUIPMENT IN COALITION OPERATIONS.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the concurrence 
of the Secretary of State, enter into an arrangement, under an 
agreement concluded pursuant to section 2342 of title 10, United States 
Code, under which the United States agrees to loan personnel protection 
and personnel survivability equipment for the use of such equipment by 
military forces of a nation participating in the following:
        (1) A coalition operation with the United States as part of a 
    contingency operation.
        (2) A coalition operation with the United States as part of a 
    peacekeeping operation under the Charter of the United Nations or 
    another international agreement.
        (3) Training of such forces in connection with the deployment 
    of such forces to be deployed to an operation described in 
    paragraph (1) or (2).
    (b) Limitations.--
        (1) Loan only of equipment for which u.s. forces have no 
    unfulfilled requirements.--Equipment may be loaned to the military 
    forces of a nation under the authority of this section only upon a 
    determination by the Secretary of Defense that the United States 
    forces in the coalition operation concerned have no unfulfilled 
    requirements for such equipment.
        (2) Scope of use of loaned equipment.--Equipment loaned to the 
    military forces of a nation under the authority of this section may 
    be used by those forces only for personnel protection or to aid in 
    the personnel survivability of those forces and only in--
            (A) a coalition operation with the United States described 
        in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a); or
            (B) training described in paragraph (3) of subsection (a).
        (3) Duration of use of loaned equipment.--Equipment loaned to 
    the military forces of a nation under the authority of this section 
    may be used by the military forces of that nation not longer than 
    the duration of that country's participation in the coalition 
    operation concerned.
        (4) Notice and wait on loan of equipment for training.--
    Equipment may not be loaned under subsection (a) in connection with 
    training described in paragraph (3) of that subsection until 15 
    days after the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits to 
    the appropriate committees of Congress written notice on the loan 
    of such equipment for such purpose.
    (c) Waiver of Reimbursement in Case of Loss of Equipment in 
Combat.--
        (1) In general.--In the case of equipment loaned under the 
    authority of this section that is damaged or destroyed as a result 
    of combat operations during coalition operations while held by 
    forces to which loaned under this section, the Secretary of Defense 
    may, with respect to such equipment, waive any other requirement 
    under applicable law for--
            (A) reimbursement;
            (B) replacement-in-kind; or
            (C) exchange of supplies or services of an equal value.
        (2) Basis for waiver.--Any waiver under this subsection may be 
    made only if the Secretary determines that the waiver is in the 
    national security interest of the United States.
        (3) Waiver on a case-by-case basis.--Any waiver under this 
    subsection may be made only on a case-by-case basis.
    (d) Reports to Congress.--If the authority provided under this 
section is exercised during a fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense 
shall, in coordination with the Secretary of State, submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the exercise of such 
authority by not later than October 30 of the year in which such fiscal 
year ends. Each report on the exercise of such authority shall specify 
the recipient country of the equipment loaned, the type of equipment 
loaned, and the duration of the loan of such equipment.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
        (2) The term ``personnel protection and personnel survivability 
    equipment'' means items enumerated in categories I, II, III, VII, 
    X, XI, and XIII of the United States Munitions List under section 
    38(a)(1) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(a)(1) that 
    the Secretary of Defense designates as available for loan under 
    this section.
    (f) Expiration of Authority.--The authority in subsection (a) shall 
expire on September 30, 2019.
SEC. 1208. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR SUPPORT OF 
SPECIAL OPERATIONS TO COMBAT TERRORISM.
    (a) Amount Available for Support.--Subsection (a) of section 1208 
of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act of Fiscal 
Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375; 118 Stat. 2086), as most recently 
amended by section 1203(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act of 
Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1621), is further 
amended by striking ``$50,000,000'' and inserting ``$75,000,000''.
    (b) Extension.--Subsection (h) of such section 1208, as most 
recently amended by section 1203(c) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act of Fiscal Year 2012, is further amended by striking 
``2015'' and inserting ``2017''.
SEC. 1209. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO THE VETTED SYRIAN 
OPPOSITION.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense is authorized, in 
coordination with the Secretary of State, to provide assistance, 
including training, equipment, supplies, stipends, construction of 
training and associated facilities, and sustainment, to appropriately 
vetted elements of the Syrian opposition and other appropriately vetted 
Syrian groups and individuals, through December 31, 2016, for the 
following purposes:
        (1) Defending the Syrian people from attacks by the Islamic 
    State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), and securing territory 
    controlled by the Syrian opposition.
        (2) Protecting the United States, its friends and allies, and 
    the Syrian people from the threats posed by terrorists in Syria.
        (3) Promoting the conditions for a negotiated settlement to end 
    the conflict in Syria.
    (b) Notice Before Provision of Assistance.--Not later than 15 days 
prior to the provision of assistance authorized under subsection (a) to 
appropriately vetted recipients for the first time--
        (1) the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
    Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
    committees and leadership of the House of Representatives and 
    Senate a report, in unclassified form with a classified annex as 
    appropriate, that contains a description of--
            (A) the plan for providing such assistance;
            (B) the requirements and process used to determine 
        appropriately vetted recipients; and
            (C) the mechanisms and procedures that will be used to 
        monitor and report to the appropriate congressional committees 
        and leadership of the House of Representatives and Senate on 
        unauthorized end-use of provided training and equipment and 
        other violations of relevant law by appropriately vetted 
        recipients; and
        (2) the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
    committees and leadership of the House of Representatives and 
    Senate a report, in unclassified form with a classified annex as 
    appropriate, that contains a description of how such assistance 
    fits within a larger regional strategy.
    (c) Plan Elements.--The plan required in subsection (b)(1) shall 
include, at a minimum, a description of--
        (1) the goals and objectives of assistance authorized under 
    subsection (a);
        (2) the concept of operations, timelines, and types of 
    training, equipment, stipends, sustainment, construction, and 
    supplies to be provided;
        (3) the roles and contributions of partner nations;
        (4) the number and role of United States Armed Forces personnel 
    involved;
        (5) any additional military support and sustainment activities; 
    and
        (6) any other relevant details.
    (d) Quarterly Progress Report.--Not later than 90 days after the 
Secretary of Defense submits the report required in subsection (b)(1), 
and every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees and leadership of the House of Representatives 
and the Senate a progress report. Such progress report shall, based on 
the most recent quarterly information, include--
        (1) any updates to or changes in the plan, strategy, vetting 
    requirements and process, and end-use monitoring mechanisms and 
    procedures, as required in subsection (b)(1);
        (2) a description of how the threat of attacks against United 
    States or coalition personnel is being mitigated, statistics on any 
    such attacks, including green-on-blue attacks, and how such attacks 
    are being mitigated;
        (3) a description of the appropriately vetted recipients 
    receiving assistance authorized under subsection (a);
        (4) the recruitment, throughput, and retention rates of 
    appropriately vetted recipients and equipment;
        (5) any misuse or loss of provided training and equipment and 
    how such misuse or loss is being mitigated;
        (6) a description of the command and control of appropriately 
    vetted recipients;
        (7) an assessment of the operational effectiveness of the 
    appropriately vetted recipients in meeting the purposes specified 
    in subsection (a);
        (8) a description of sustainment support provided to 
    appropriately vetted recipients pursuant to subsection (a);
        (9) a list of construction projects carried out under authority 
    in subsection (a);
        (10) a statement of the amount of funds expended during the 
    period for which the report is submitted, and in aggregate since 
    September 19, 2014, to provide assistance by authorized category 
    pursuant to subsection (a) and section 149 of the Continuing 
    Appropriations Resolution, 2015 (Public Law 113-164); and
        (11) an assessment of the effectiveness of the assistance 
    authorized under subsection (a) as measured against subsections (b) 
    and (c).
    (e) Definitions.--For purposes of this section, the following 
definitions shall apply:
        (1) The term ``appropriately vetted'' means, with respect to 
    elements of the Syrian opposition and other Syrian groups and 
    individuals, at a minimum--
            (A) assessments of such elements, groups, and individuals 
        for associations with terrorist groups, Shia militias aligned 
        with or supporting the Government of Syria, and groups 
        associated with the Government of Iran. Such groups include, 
        but are not limited to, the Islamic State of Iraq and the 
        Levant (ISIL), Jabhat al Nusrah, Ahrar al Sham, other al-Qaeda 
        related groups, and Hezbollah; and
            (B) a commitment from such elements, groups, and 
        individuals to promoting the respect for human rights and the 
        rule of law.
        (2) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
    (f) Reprogramming Requirement.--The Secretary of Defense may submit 
a reprogramming or transfer request of funds made available for 
Overseas Contingency Operations beginning on October 1, 2014, and 
ending on December 31, 2016, to the congressional defense committees to 
carry out activities authorized under this section.
    (g) Authority to Accept Contributions.--The Secretary of Defense 
may accept and retain contributions, including assistance in-kind, from 
foreign governments to provide assistance as authorized by this 
section. Any funds so accepted by the Secretary shall be credited to 
appropriations for the appropriate operation and maintenance accounts, 
except that any funds so accepted by the Secretary shall not be 
available for obligation until a reprogramming request is submitted to 
the congressional defense committees.
    (h) Construction of Authorization.--Nothing in this section shall 
be construed to constitute a specific statutory authorization for the 
introduction of United States Armed Forces into hostilities or into 
situations wherein hostilities are clearly indicated by the 
circumstances.
    (i) War Powers Resolution Matters.--Nothing in this section 
supersedes or alters the continuing obligations of the President to 
report to Congress pursuant to section 4 of the War Powers Resolution 
(50 U.S.C. 1543) regarding the use of United States Armed Forces 
abroad.
    (j) Waiver Authority.--For purposes of the provision of assistance 
pursuant to subsection (a), the President may waive any provision of 
law if the President determines that such provision of law would (but 
for the waiver) impede national security objectives of the United 
States by prohibiting, restricting, delaying, or otherwise limiting the 
provision of such assistance. Such waiver shall not take effect until 
30 days after the date on which the President notifies the appropriate 
congressional committees of such determination and the provision of law 
to be waived.
    (k) Assistance to Third Countries in Provision of Assistance.--The 
Secretary may provide assistance to third countries for purposes of the 
provision of assistance authorized under this section.
SEC. 1210. PROVISION OF LOGISTIC SUPPORT FOR THE CONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN 
DEFENSE ARTICLES TO FOREIGN FORCES TRAINING WITH THE UNITED STATES 
ARMED FORCES.
    (a) In General.--During fiscal years 2015 and 2016, the Secretary 
of Defense is authorized to provide logistic support for the conveyance 
of certain defense articles in Afghanistan to the armed forces of a 
country with which the Armed Forces of the United States plan to 
conduct bilateral or multilateral training overseas during fiscal years 
2015 and 2016.
    (b) Limitations.--The Secretary may provide logistic support under 
subsection (a) only--
        (1) in accordance with the Arms Export Control Act and other 
    relevant export control laws of the United States;
        (2) in accordance with section 516(c)(2) of the Foreign 
    Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2321j); and
        (3) with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.
    (c) Limitation.--The total value of logistic support provided under 
subsection (a) for a fiscal year may not exceed $10,000,000.
    (d) Source of Funds.--To provide logistic support under subsection 
(a), the Secretary may use funds available for Operation and 
Maintenance, Defense-wide, for fiscal years 2015 and 2016.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the last day of a fiscal 
year during which the Secretary of Defense exercises the authority 
under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretary of State, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the 
Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report 
on the exercise of authority under this section during that fiscal 
year. Such report shall include a description of the types of defense 
articles provided, the amount of funds expended, and the countries that 
received defense articles.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``logistic support'' means--
            (A) the use of military transportation and cargo-handling 
        assets, including aircraft;
            (B) materiel support in the form of fuel, petroleum, oil, 
        or lubricants; and
            (C) commercially contracted transportation.
        (2) The term ``certain defense article'' means an item that has 
    been declared an excess defense article and has been transferred 
    from the stocks of the Department of Defense in Afghanistan but has 
    not yet been made available for disposal through the Defense 
    Logistics Agency process.
SEC. 1211. BIENNIAL REPORT ON PROGRAMS CARRIED OUT BY THE DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE TO PROVIDE TRAINING, EQUIPMENT, OR OTHER ASSISTANCE OR 
REIMBURSEMENT TO FOREIGN SECURITY FORCES.
    (a) Biennial Report Required.--Not later than February 1 of each of 
2016, 2018, and 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report that sets forth, on a 
country-by-country basis, a description of each program carried out by 
the Department of Defense to provide training, equipment, or other 
security assistance or reimbursement during the two fiscal years ending 
in the year before the year in which such report is submitted under the 
authorities specified in subsection (c).
    (b) Elements of Report.--Each report required under subsection (a) 
shall provide for each program covered by such report, and for the 
reporting period covered by such report, the following:
        (1) A description of the purpose and type of the training, 
    equipment, or assistance or reimbursement provided, including how 
    the training, equipment, or assistance or reimbursement provided 
    advances the theater security cooperation strategy of the combatant 
    command, as appropriate.
        (2) The cost of such training, equipment, or assistance or 
    reimbursement, including by type of support provided.
        (3) A description of the metrics, if any, used for assessing 
    the effectiveness of such training, equipment, or assistance or 
    reimbursement provided.
    (c) Specified Authorities.--The authorities specified in this 
subsection are the following authorities (or any successor 
authorities):
        (1) Section 127d of title 10, United States Code, relating to 
    authority to provide logistic support, supplies, and services to 
    allied forces participating in a combined operation with the Armed 
    Forces.
        (2) Section 166a(b)(6) of title 10, United States Code, 
    relating to humanitarian and civic assistance by the commanders of 
    the combatant commands.
        (3) Section 168 of title 10, United States Code, relating to 
    authority--
            (A) to provide assistance to nations of the former Soviet 
        Union as part of the Warsaw Initiative Fund;
            (B) to conduct the Defense Institution Reform Initiative; 
        and
            (C) to conduct a program to increase defense institutional 
        legal capacity through the Defense Institute of International 
        Legal Studies.
        (4) Section 2010 of title 10, United States Code, relating to 
    authority to reimburse foreign troops for participation in combined 
    exercises.
        (5) Section 2011 of title 10, United States Code, relating to 
    authority to reimburse foreign troops for participation in Joint 
    Combined Exercise Training.
        (6) Section 2249c of title 10, United States Code, relating to 
    authority to use appropriated funds for costs associated with 
    education and training of foreign officials under the Regional 
    Defense Combating Terrorism Fellowship Program.
        (7) Section 2282 of title 10, United States Code (as added by 
    section 1205 of this Act), relating to authority to build the 
    capacity of foreign military forces, or the predecessor authority 
    to such section in section 1206 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 119 
    Stat. 3456).
        (8) Section 2561 of title 10, United States Code, relating to 
    authority to provide humanitarian assistance.
        (9) Section 1532, relating to the Afghanistan Security Forces 
    Fund.
        (10) Section 1205 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2014 (32 U.S.C. 107 note), relating to authority for 
    National Guard State Partnership program.
        (11) Section 1081 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 168 note), relating to the Ministry of 
    Defense Advisors program.
        (12) Section 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note), relating to the Global 
    Security Contingency Fund.
        (13) Section 1233 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 393), relating to 
    authority to reimburse certain coalition nations for support 
    provided to United States military operations.
        (14) Section 1234 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2008 (122 Stat. 394), relating to authorization for 
    logistical support for coalition forces supporting certain United 
    States military operations.
        (15) Section 1033 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105-85; 111 Stat. 1881), relating to 
    authority to provide additional support for counter-drug activities 
    of Peru and Colombia.
        (16) Section 1004 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 1991 (10 U.S.C. 374 note), relating to additional 
    support for counter-drug activities.
        (17) Any other authority on assistance or reimbursement that 
    the Secretary of Defense considers appropriate and consistent with 
    subsection (a).
    (d) Nonduplication of Effort.--If any information required under 
subsection (a) has been included in another report or notification 
previously submitted to Congress by law, the Secretary of Defense may 
provide a list of such reports and notifications at the time of 
submitting the report required by subsection (a) in lieu of including 
such information in the report required by subsection (a).
    (e) Form.--Each report required under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
    (f) Repeal of Superseded Requirement.--Section 1209 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (122 Stat. 368) is 
repealed.

    Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Iraq

SEC. 1221. COMMANDERS' EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROGRAM IN AFGHANISTAN.
    (a) One-Year Extension.--Section 1201 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 
1619), as most recently amended by section 1211 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 
904), is further amended by striking ``fiscal year 2014'' each place it 
appears and inserting ``fiscal year 2015''.
    (b) Semi-Annual Reports.--Subsection (b) of such section, as so 
amended, is further amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Quarterly'' and 
    inserting ``Semi-annual''; and
        (2) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``Quarterly'' and 
        inserting ``Semi-annual'';
            (B) by striking ``fiscal year quarter'' and inserting 
        ``half fiscal year''; and
            (C) by striking ``that quarter'' and inserting ``that half 
        fiscal year''.
    (c) Funds Available During Fiscal Year 2015.--Subsection (a) of 
such section, as so amended, is further amended by striking 
``$60,000,000'' and inserting ``$10,000,000''.
    (d) Restriction on Amount of Payments.--Subsection (e) of such 
section is amended by striking ``$20,000,000'' and inserting 
``$2,000,000''.
    (e) Notification on Certain Projects.--Subsection (g) of such 
section is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
    ``$5,000,000'' and inserting ``$500,000'';
        (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``to advance the military 
    campaign plan for Afghanistan'' and inserting ``to directly benefit 
    the security or stability of the people of Afghanistan''; and
        (3) in paragraph (3), by striking ``any agreement with either 
    the Government of Afghanistan,'' and inserting ``any written 
    agreement with either the Government of Afghanistan, an entity 
    owned or controlled by the Government of Afghanistan,''.
    (f) Submittal of Revised Guidance.--Not later than 15 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a copy of the guidance 
issued by the Secretary to the Armed Forces concerning the Commanders' 
Emergency Response Program in Afghanistan as revised to take into 
account the amendments made by this section.
SEC. 1222. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF 
CERTAIN COALITION NATIONS FOR SUPPORT PROVIDED TO UNITED STATES 
MILITARY OPERATIONS.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1233 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 
Stat. 393), as most recently amended by section 1213 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 
Stat. 905), is further amended--
        (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2014'' and inserting ``fiscal 
    year 2015''; and
        (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Operation Enduring 
    Freedom'' and inserting ``Iraq or in Operation Enduring Freedom in 
    Afghanistan''.
    (b) Other Support.--Subsection (b) of such section, as so amended, 
is further amended by inserting ``Iraq or in'' before ``Operation 
Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan''.
    (c) Limitation on Amounts Available.--Subsection (d)(1) of such 
section, as so amended, is further amended--
        (1) in the second sentence, by striking ``during fiscal year 
    2014 may not exceed $1,500,000,000'' and inserting ``during fiscal 
    year 2015 may not exceed $1,200,000,000''; and
        (2) in the third sentence, by striking ``during fiscal year 
    2013 may not exceed $1,200,000,000'' and inserting ``during fiscal 
    year 2015 may not exceed $1,000,000,000''.
    (d) Extension of Notice Requirement Relating to Reimbursement of 
Pakistan for Support Provided by Pakistan.--Section 1232(b)(6) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (122 Stat. 
393), as most recently amended by section 1213(c) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (127 Stat. 906), is 
further amended by striking ``September 30, 2014'' and inserting 
``September 30, 2015''.
    (e) Extension of Limitation on Reimbursement of Pakistan Pending 
Certification on Pakistan.--Section 1227(d)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 
2001), as amended by section 1213(d) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (127 Stat. 906), is further 
amended by striking ``fiscal year 2014'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
2015''.
    (f) Additional Limitation on Reimbursement of Pakistan Pending 
Certification on Pakistan.--Of the total amount of reimbursements and 
support authorized for Pakistan during fiscal year 2015 pursuant to the 
third sentence of section 1233(d)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (as amended by subsection 
(b)(2)), $300,000,000 shall not be eligible for the waiver under 
section 1227(d)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (126 Stat. 2001) unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to 
the congressional defense committees that--
        (1) Pakistan has undertaken military operations in North 
    Waziristan that have contributed to significantly disrupting the 
    safe haven and freedom of movement of the Haqqani network in 
    Pakistan; and
        (2) Pakistan has taken steps that have demonstrated a 
    commitment to ensuring that North Waziristan does not return to 
    being a safe haven for the Haqqani network.
SEC. 1223. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF LOGISTICAL SUPPORT FOR COALITION 
FORCES SUPPORTING CERTAIN UNITED STATES MILITARY OPERATIONS.
    (a) Extension.--Section 1234 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 394), as most 
recently amended by section 1217(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 
909), is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``fiscal year 2014'' and 
    inserting ``fiscal year 2015'';
        (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``during the period 
    beginning on October 1, 2013, and ending on December 31, 2014'' and 
    inserting ``during the period beginning on October 1, 2014, and 
    ending on December 31, 2015''; and
        (3) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``December 31, 2014'' and 
    inserting ``December 31, 2015''.
    (b) Authority for Use of Funds in Connection With Iraq.--
        (1) In general.--Subsection (a) of such section 1234, as so 
    amended, is further amended by inserting ``and Iraq'' after ``in 
    Afghanistan''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--The heading of such section 1234 is 
    amended by inserting ``and iraq'' after ``afghanistan''.
SEC. 1224. UNITED STATES PLAN FOR SUSTAINING THE AFGHANISTAN NATIONAL 
SECURITY FORCES THROUGH THE END OF FISCAL YEAR 2017.
    (a) Plan Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretary of State, shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report that contains a detailed plan for sustaining the 
Afghanistan National Army (ANA) and the Afghanistan National Police 
(ANP) of the Afghanistan National Security Forces (ANSF) through the 
end of fiscal year 2017, with the objective of ensuring that the ANSF 
will be able to independently and effectively conduct operations and 
maintain security and stability in Afghanistan.
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--The plan contained in the report 
required under subsection (a) shall include a description of the 
following matters:
        (1) A comprehensive sustainment strategy, including target end-
    strengths, budget, and defined objectives.
        (2) The commitments for funding contributions from the North 
    Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and non-NATO nations for 
    sustaining the ANSF through the end of fiscal year 2017, any 
    shortfalls in funding for such purposes, and the plan for achieving 
    such commitments as necessary to sustain the ANSF.
        (3) A mechanism for tracking funding, equipment, training, and 
    services provided to the ANSF by the United States, countries 
    participating in NATO's Operation Resolute Support, and other 
    members of the international community contributing to the 
    sustainment of the ANSF.
        (4) Plans for assisting the Government of Afghanistan to 
    achieve the following goals:
            (A) Improve and sustain effective Afghan security 
        institutions with fully capable senior leadership and staff, 
        including logistics, intelligence, medical, and recruiting 
        units.
            (B) Train and equip key enabling capabilities, including 
        for the Afghan Special Operations Forces, the Afghan Air Force, 
        and Afghan Special Mission Wing, such that these entities are 
        fully-capable of conducting operations independently and in 
        sufficient numbers.
            (C) Establish effective and sustainable ANSF-readiness 
        assessment tools and metrics.
            (D) Improve and sustain strong, professional ANSF officers 
        at the junior-, mid-, and senior-levels.
            (E) Enhance strong ANSF communication and control between 
        central command and regions, provinces, and districts.
            (F) Develop and improve institutional mechanisms for 
        incorporating lessons learned and best practices into ANSF 
        operations.
            (G) Improve ANSF oversight mechanisms, including an 
        effective record-keeping system to track ANSF equipment and 
        personnel and a sustainable process to identify, investigate, 
        and eliminate corruption.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1225. SEMIANNUAL REPORT ON ENHANCING SECURITY AND STABILITY IN 
AFGHANISTAN.
    (a) Reports Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in 
    coordination with the Secretary of State, submit to the appropriate 
    committees of Congress on a semiannual basis a report on building 
    and sustaining the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) and 
    enhancing security and stability in Afghanistan.
        (2) Submittal.--A report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted 
    not later than June 15 each year, for the 6-month period ending on 
    May 31 of such year, and not later than December 15 each year, for 
    the 6-month period ending on November 30 of such year. No report is 
    required to be submitted under paragraph (1) after the report 
    required to be submitted on December 15, 2017.
        (3) Form.--Each report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--Each report required under subsection 
(a) shall include the following:
        (1) Strategy and objectives of united states and nato missions 
    in afghanistan after 2014.--A detailed description of--
            (A) the strategy and objectives of any post-2014 United 
        States mission and any mission agreed by the North Atlantic 
        Treaty Organization (NATO), to train, advise, and assist the 
        ANSF or to conduct counterterrorism operations; and
            (B) indicators of effectiveness as developed by the 
        Secretary or NATO, as appropriate, in the assessment of any 
        such United States train, advise, and assist mission and of any 
        such train, advise, and assist mission agreed by NATO, 
        including efforts to build the counterterrorism capabilities of 
        the ANSF.
        (2) Threat assessment.--An assessment of the current security 
    conditions in Afghanistan and the security conditions anticipated 
    in Afghanistan during the 24-month period beginning on the date of 
    the submittal of such report, including with respect to threats 
    from terrorist groups such as al-Qaeda, the Taliban, and the 
    Haqqani Network.
        (3) Description of size and structure and strategy and budget 
    of ansf.--A description of--
            (A) the size and force structure of the ANSF, including the 
        Afghanistan National Army (ANA), the Afghanistan National 
        Police (ANP), the Afghan Border Police, the Afghan Local 
        Police, and such other major force components of the ANSF as 
        the Secretary considers appropriate;
            (B) the rationale for any changes in the overall end 
        strength or the mix of force structure for the ANSF during the 
        period covered by such report;
            (C) levels of recruitment, retention, and attrition within 
        the ANSF, in the aggregate and by force component;
            (D) personnel end strength within the Afghanistan Ministry 
        of Defense and the Afghanistan Ministry of Security;
            (E) the strategy and budget of the ANSF; and
            (F) a description of the activities of the ANSF during the 
        period covered by the report.
        (4) Assessment of size, structure, capabilities, and strategy 
    of ansf.--An assessment whether the size, structure, capabilities, 
    and strategy of the ANSF are sufficient to provide security in 
    light of the current security conditions in Afghanistan and the 
    security conditions anticipated in Afghanistan during the 24-month 
    period beginning on the date of the submittal of such report. Such 
    assessment should describe the risks and trade-offs the ANSF are 
    making and any gaps in the capacity and capabilities of the ANSF.
        (5) Building key capabilities and enabling forces within 
    ansf.--
            (A) A description of programs to achieve key mission 
        enabling capabilities within the ANSF, including any major 
        milestones and timelines, and the end states intended to be 
        achieved by such programs, including for the following:
                (i) Security institution capacity building.
                (ii) Special operations forces and their key enablers.
                (iii) Intelligence.
                (iv) Logistics.
                (v) Maintenance.
                (vi) Air forces.
            (B) Metrics, as developed by the Commander of United States 
        forces in Afghanistan, for monitoring and evaluating the 
        performance of such programs in achieving the intended outcomes 
        of such programs.
        (6) Financing the ansf.--A description of--
            (A) any plan agreed by the United States, the international 
        community, and the Government of Afghanistan to fund and 
        sustain the ANSF that serves as current guidance on such 
        matters during the period covered by such report, including a 
        description of whether such plan differs from--
                (i) in the case of the first report submitted under 
            subsection (a), commitments undertaken at the 2012 NATO 
            Summit in Chicago and the Tokyo Mutual Accountability 
            Framework; or
                (ii) in the case of any other report submitted under 
            subsection (a), such plan as set forth in the previous 
            report submitted under subsection (a);
            (B) the Afghan Security Forces Fund financing plan through 
        2017;
            (C) contributions by the international community to 
        sustaining the ANSF during the period covered by such report;
            (D) contributions by the Government of Afghanistan to 
        sustaining the ANSF during the period covered by such report; 
        and
            (E) efforts to ensure that the Government of Afghanistan 
        can assume an increasing financial responsibility for 
        sustaining the ANSF consistent with its commitments at the 
        Chicago Summit and the Tokyo Mutual Accountability Framework.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
    Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
    Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
    Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
    of Representatives.
    (d) Repeal of Superseded Authority.--Section 1230 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181) is 
repealed.
SEC. 1226. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON STABILITY AND SOVEREIGNTY OF 
AFGHANISTAN.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) a top national security priority for the United States 
    continues to be to support the stability and sovereignty of 
    Afghanistan and to help Afghanistan ensure that its territory is 
    not used by al Qaeda, the Haqqani Network, or other violent 
    extremist groups to launch attacks against the United States or its 
    interests;
        (2) the presence of United States military forces in 
    Afghanistan after 2014 to train, advise, and assist the Afghanistan 
    National Security Forces (ANSF) and conduct counterterrorism 
    operations is a key step to maintaining the significant gains 
    achieved in Afghanistan and should be executed consistent with the 
    security conditions on the ground;
        (3) any drawdown of such United States military forces and 
    operations should be considered in relation to security conditions 
    on the ground in Afghanistan at the time of the drawdown and the 
    recommendations of senior United States military commanders; and
        (4) NATO member countries and other members of the 
    international community should honor their commitments to support 
    Afghanistan at the Lisbon, Chicago, and Tokyo conferences taking 
    into account the mutual accountability framework agreed by the 
    Government of Afghanistan.
SEC. 1227. EXTENSION OF AFGHAN SPECIAL IMMIGRANT PROGRAM.
    Section 602(b) of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (8 
U.S.C. 1101 note) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2)(A)--
            (A) by amending clause (ii) to read as follows:
                ``(ii) was or is employed in Afghanistan on or after 
            October 7, 2001, for not less than 1 year--

                    ``(I) by, or on behalf of, the United States 
                Government; or
                    ``(II) by the International Security Assistance 
                Force in a capacity that required the alien--

                        ``(aa) while traveling off-base with United 
                    States military personnel stationed at 
                    International Security Assistance Force, to serve 
                    as an interpreter or translator for such United 
                    States military personnel; or
                        ``(bb) to perform sensitive and trusted 
                    activities for United States military personnel 
                    stationed at International Security Assistance 
                    Force;'';
            (B) in clause (iii), by striking ``the United States 
        Government,'' and inserting ``an entity or organization 
        described in clause (ii),''; and
            (C) in clause (iv), by striking ``by the United States 
        Government.'' and inserting ``described in clause (ii).'';
        (2) by adding at the end of paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(F) Fiscal years 2015 and 2016.--In addition to any 
        unused balance under subparagraph (D), for the period beginning 
        on the date of the enactment of this subparagraph and ending on 
        September 30, 2016, the total number of principal aliens who 
        may be provided special immigrant status under this section 
        shall not exceed 4,000. For purposes of status provided under 
        this subparagraph--
                ``(i) the period during which an alien must have been 
            employed in accordance with paragraph (2)(A)(ii) must 
            terminate on or before September 30, 2015;
                ``(ii) the principal alien seeking special immigrant 
            status under this subparagraph shall apply to the Chief of 
            Mission in accordance with paragraph (2)(D) not later than 
            December 31, 2015; and
                ``(iii) the authority to issue visas shall commence on 
            the date of the enactment of this subparagraph and shall 
            terminate on March 31, 2017.''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(14) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary of State and the 
    Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary 
    of Defense, shall submit a report to the Committee on the Judiciary 
    of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
    Representatives containing the following information:
            ``(A) The occupations of aliens who--
                ``(i) were provided special immigrant status under this 
            section; and
                ``(ii) were considered principal aliens for such 
            purpose.
            ``(B) The number of appeals submitted under paragraph 
        (2)(D)(ii)(I)(bb) from application denials by the Chief of 
        Mission and the number of those applications that were approved 
        pursuant to the appeal.
            ``(C) The number of applications denied by the Chief of 
        Mission on the basis of derogatory information that were 
        appealed and the number of those applications that were 
        approved pursuant to the appeal.
            ``(D) The number of applications denied by the Chief of 
        Mission on the basis that the applicant did not establish 
        faithful and valuable service to the United States Government 
        that were appealed and the number of those applications that 
        were approved pursuant to the appeal.
            ``(E) The number of applications denied by the Chief of 
        Mission for failure to establish the one-year period of 
        employment required that were appealed and the number of those 
        applications that were approved pursuant to the appeal.
            ``(F) The number of applications denied by the Chief of 
        Mission for failure to establish employment by or on behalf of 
        the United States Government that were appealed and the number 
        of those applications that were approved pursuant to the 
        appeal.
            ``(G) The number of special immigrant status approvals 
        revoked by the Chief of Mission and the reason for each 
        revocation.
            ``(H) The number of special immigrant status approvals 
        revoked by the Chief of Mission that were appealed and the 
        number of those revocations that were overturned pursuant to 
        the appeal.''.
SEC. 1228. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF UNITED STATES EFFORTS AGAINST AL-
QAEDA.
    (a) Independent Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense, in 
coordination with the Secretary of State and the Director of National 
Intelligence, shall provide for the conduct of an independent 
assessment of the effectiveness of the United States efforts to 
disrupt, dismantle, and defeat al-Qaeda, including its affiliated 
groups, associated groups, and adherents since September 11, 2001.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) An assessment of al-Qaeda core's current relationship with 
    affiliated groups, associated groups, and adherents, and how it has 
    changed over time.
        (2) An assessment of the current objectives, capabilities, and 
    overall strategy of al-Qaeda core, its affiliated groups, 
    associated groups, and adherents, and how they have changed over 
    time.
        (3) An assessment of the operational and organizational 
    structure of al-Qaeda core, its affiliated groups, associated 
    groups, and adherents, and how it has changed over time.
        (4) An analysis of the activities that have proven to be most 
    effective and least effective at disrupting and dismantling al 
    Qaeda, its affiliated groups, associated groups, and adherents.
        (5) Recommendations for United States policy to disrupt, 
    dismantle, and defeat al-Qaeda, its affiliated groups, associated 
    groups, and adherents.
        (6) Other matters that the Secretary determines to be 
    appropriate.
    (c) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the entity selected for the conduct of the 
    assessment required by subsection (a) shall provide to the 
    Secretary of Defense and the appropriate committees of Congress a 
    report containing its findings as a result of the assessment.
        (2) Form.--The report shall be submitted in unclassified form, 
    but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees;
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Select Committee 
    on Intelligence of the Senate; and
        (3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Permanent Select 
    Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1229. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON SECURITY OF AFGHAN WOMEN.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States Government should continue to work with 
    the Government of Afghanistan and Afghan civil society to promote 
    the rights of women in Afghanistan and their inclusion in the 
    political, economic, and security transition process; and
        (2) the United States Government should continue to support and 
    encourage efforts by the Government of Afghanistan to recruit, 
    integrate, train, and retain women in the Afghanistan National 
    Security Forces (ANSF), including through the use of not less than 
    $25,000,000 as specified in section 1531(c) of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 
    Stat. 938) for programs and activities for such purposes, which may 
    include--
            (A) assistance in prioritizing efforts to increase the 
        number of women serving in the ANSF, taking into account the 
        Master Ministerial Development Plan for Afghanistan National 
        Army (ANA) Gender Integration;
            (B) further development of training for the ANA and the 
        Afghanistan National Police (ANP) to increase awareness and 
        responsiveness among ANA and ANP personnel regarding the unique 
        security challenges women confront when serving in those 
        forces;
            (C) assistance in the development of a plan to increase the 
        number of female security officers specifically trained to 
        address gender-based violence, such as the Family Response 
        Units of the ANP, and to ensure that such units are 
        appropriately resourced;
            (D) assistance in the development of accountability 
        mechanisms for ANA and ANP personnel relating to the treatment 
        of women and girls, including female members of the ANSF;
            (E) assistance in the implementation of a plan, developed 
        in coordination with the Government of Afghanistan, to promote 
        the equal treatment of female members of the ANA and ANP 
        through such steps as providing appropriate equipment, 
        modifying facilities, and ensuring literacy and gender 
        awareness training for female recruits and male counterparts; 
        and
            (F) assistance to the Afghan Ministry of Defense and the 
        Afghan Ministry of Interior in recruiting, training, and 
        funding sufficient female searchers and security officers to 
        staff voting stations during the 2015 parliamentary elections.
SEC. 1230. REVIEW PROCESS FOR USE OF UNITED STATES FUNDS FOR 
CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS IN AFGHANISTAN THAT CANNOT BE PHYSICALLY ACCESSED 
BY UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL.
    (a) Prohibition.--
        (1) In general.--None of the funds authorized to be 
    appropriated by this Act may be obligated or expended for a 
    construction project in Afghanistan in excess of $1,000,000 that 
    cannot be audited and physically inspected by authorized United 
    States Government personnel or their designated representatives, in 
    accordance with generally-accepted auditing guidelines.
        (2) Applicability.--Paragraph (1) shall apply only with respect 
    to a project that is initiated on or after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act.
    (b) Waiver.--The prohibition in subsection (a) may be waived with 
respect to a project otherwise covered by that subsection if not later 
than 15 days prior to the initial obligation of funds for the project 
the Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense 
committees a report that contains the following:
        (1) A determination of the Secretary of Defense that--
            (A) the project clearly contributes to United States 
        national interests or strategic objectives;
            (B) the project has been coordinated with the Government of 
        Afghanistan and any other implementing agencies or 
        international donors; and
            (C) adequate arrangements have been made for sustainment of 
        the project following its completion, including arrangements 
        with respect to funding and technical capacity for sustainment.
        (2) A plan that contains--
            (A) a description of how the Secretary of Defense will 
        monitor the use of the funds for the project--
                (i) to ensure the funds are used for the specific 
            purposes for which the funds are intended; and
                (ii) to mitigate waste, fraud, and abuse; and
            (B) metrics to measure the progress and effectiveness of 
        the project in meeting its objectives.
SEC. 1231. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER DEFENSE ARTICLES AND 
PROVIDE DEFENSE SERVICES TO THE MILITARY AND SECURITY FORCES OF 
AFGHANISTAN.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (h) of section 1222 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
Stat. 1992) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2014'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2015''.
    (b) Quarterly Reports.--Subsection (f)(1) of such section is 
amended by striking ``March 31, 2015'' and inserting ``March 31, 
2016''.
    (c) Excess Defense Articles.--Subsection (i)(2) of such section is 
amended by striking ``and 2014'' each place it appears and inserting 
``, 2014, and 2015''.
SEC. 1232. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO USE FUNDS FOR 
REINTEGRATION ACTIVITIES IN AFGHANISTAN.
    Section 1216 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4392), as most 
recently amended by section 1212 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 905), is further 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``$25,000,000'' and inserting 
        ``$5,000,000''; and
            (B) by striking ``for fiscal year 2014'' and inserting 
        ``for fiscal year 2015''; and
        (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``December 31, 2014'' and 
    inserting ``December 31, 2015''.
SEC. 1233. CLEARANCE OF UNEXPLODED ORDNANCE ON FORMER UNITED STATES 
TRAINING RANGES IN AFGHANISTAN.
    (a) Authority to Conduct Clearance.--Subject to subsection (b), the 
Secretary of Defense may, using funds specified in subsection (c), 
conduct surface and sub-surface clearance of unexploded ordnance at 
closed training ranges used by the Armed Forces of the United States in 
Afghanistan.
    (b) Conditions on Authority.--
        (1) Limitation to ranges not transferred to afghanistan.--The 
    surface and sub-surface clearance of unexploded ordnance authorized 
    under subsection (a) may only take place on training ranges managed 
    and operated by the Armed Forces of the United States that have not 
    been transferred to the Government of the Islamic Republic of 
    Afghanistan for use by its armed forces.
        (2) Limitation on amounts available.--Funds expended for 
    clearance pursuant to the authority in subsection (a) through 
    September 30, 2016, may not exceed $250,000,000.
    (c) Funds.--The surface and sub-surface clearance of unexploded 
ordnance authorized by subsection (a) shall be paid for using amounts 
as follows:
        (1) For fiscal year 2015, amounts authorized to be appropriated 
    by section 1502 and available for operation and maintenance for 
    overseas contingency operations.
        (2) For fiscal year 2016, amounts authorized to be appropriated 
    for fiscal year 2016 for the Department of Defense as additional 
    authorizations of appropriations for overseas contingency 
    operations and available for operation and maintenance for overseas 
    contingency operations.
    (d) Unexploded Ordnance Defined.--In this section, the term 
``unexploded ordnance'' has the meaning given that term in section 
101(e)(5) of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 1234. REPORT ON IMPACT OF END OF MAJOR COMBAT OPERATIONS IN 
AFGHANISTAN ON AUTHORITY TO USE MILITARY FORCE.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth an assessment 
of the impact, if any, of the end of major combat operations in 
Afghanistan on the authority of the Armed Forces of the United States 
to use military force, including the authority to detain, with regard 
to al Qaeda, the Taliban, and associated forces, pursuant to--
        (1) the Authorization for Use of Military Force (Public Law 
    107-40); and
        (2) any other available legal authority.
    (b) Form.--The report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
    Representatives.
SEC. 1235. REPORT ON BILATERAL SECURITY COOPERATION WITH PAKISTAN.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and every six months thereafter, the Secretary of 
Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretary of State, submit to 
the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the nature and 
extent of bilateral security cooperation between the United States and 
Pakistan.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include, at a minimum, the following:
        (1) A description of any strategic security objectives that the 
    United States and Pakistan have agreed to pursue in cooperation.
        (2) A description of programs or activities that the United 
    States and Pakistan have jointly undertaken to pursue mutually 
    agreed security cooperation objectives.
        (3) A description and assessment of the effectiveness of 
    efforts by Pakistan, unilaterally or jointly with the United 
    States, to disrupt operations and eliminate safe havens of al 
    Qaeda, Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan, and other militant extremist 
    groups such as the Haqqani Network and the Quetta Shura Taliban 
    located in Pakistan.
        (4) A description and assessment of efforts by Pakistan, 
    unilaterally or jointly with the United States, to counter the 
    threat of improvised explosive devices and the networks involved in 
    the acquisition, production, and delivery of such devices and their 
    precursors and components.
        (5) An assessment of the effectiveness of any United States 
    security assistance to Pakistan to achieve the strategic security 
    objectives described in paragraph (1).
        (6) A description of any metrics used to assess the 
    effectiveness of programs and activities described in paragraph 
    (2).
    (c) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Sunset.--The requirements in this section shall terminate on 
December 31, 2017.
    (e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
    Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
    Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
    Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House 
    of Representatives.
    (f) Repeal of Obsolete and Superseded Requirements.--Section 1232 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public 
Law 110-181) is amended by striking subsections (a) and (c).
SEC. 1236. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO COUNTER THE ISLAMIC STATE 
IN IRAQ AND THE LEVANT.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense is authorized, in 
coordination with the Secretary of State, to provide assistance, 
including training, equipment, logistics support, supplies, and 
services, stipends, facility and infrastructure repair and renovation, 
and sustainment, to military and other security forces of or associated 
with the Government of Iraq, including Kurdish and tribal security 
forces or other local security forces, with a national security 
mission, through December 31, 2016, for the following purposes:
        (1) Defending Iraq, its people, allies, and partner nations 
    from the threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant 
    (ISIL) and groups supporting ISIL.
        (2) Securing the territory of Iraq.
    (b) Notice Before Provision of Assistance.--Of the funds authorized 
to be appropriated under this section, not more than 25 percent of such 
funds may be obligated or expended until not later than 15 days after--
        (1) the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
    Secretary of State, submits to the appropriate congressional 
    committees and leadership of the House of Representatives and 
    Senate a report, in unclassified form with a classified annex as 
    appropriate, that contains a description of--
            (A) the plan for providing such assistance;
            (B) an identification of such forces designated to receive 
        such assistance; and
            (C) the plan for re-training and re-building such forces; 
        and
        (2) the President submits to the appropriate congressional 
    committees and leadership of the House of Representatives and 
    Senate a report, in unclassified form with a classified annex as 
    appropriate, that contains a description of how such assistance 
    supports a larger regional strategy.
    (c) Plan Elements.--The plan required in subsection (a)(1) shall 
include, at a minimum, a description of--
        (1) the goals and objectives of assistance authorized under 
    subsection (a);
        (2) the concept of operations, timelines, and types of 
    training, equipment, stipends, sustainment, and supplies to be 
    provided;
        (3) the roles and contributions of partner nations;
        (4) the number and role of United States Armed Forces personnel 
    involved;
        (5) any additional military support and sustainment activities; 
    and
        (6) any other relevant details.
    (d) Quarterly Progress Report.--Not later than 90 days after the 
date on which the Secretary of Defense submits the report required in 
subsection (b)(1), and every 30 days thereafter, the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, shall provide the 
appropriate congressional committees and leadership of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate with a progress report. Such progress 
report shall, based on the most recent quarterly information, include a 
description of the following:
        (1) Any updates to or changes in the plan, strategy, process, 
    vetting requirements and process as described in subsection (e), 
    and end-use monitoring mechanisms and procedures.
        (2) A description of how attacks against United States or 
    coalition personnel are being mitigated, statistics on any such 
    attacks, including ``green-on-blue'' attacks.
        (3) A description of the forces receiving assistance authorized 
    under subsection (a).
        (4) A description of the recruitment, throughput, and retention 
    rates of recipients and equipment.
        (5) A description of any misuse or loss of provided equipment 
    and how such misuse or loss is being mitigated.
        (6) An assessment of the operational effectiveness of the 
    forces receiving assistance authorized under subsection (a).
        (7) A description of sustainment support provided to the forces 
    authorized under subsection (a).
        (8) A list of projects to repair or renovate facilities 
    authorized under subsection (a).
        (9) A statement of the amount of funds expended during the 
    period for which the report is submitted.
        (10) An assessment of the effectiveness of the assistance 
    authorized under subsection (a).
    (e) Vetting.--The Secretary of Defense should ensure that prior to 
providing assistance to elements of any forces described in subsection 
(a) such elements are appropriately vetted, including at a minimum, 
by--
        (1) conducting assessments of such elements for associations 
    with terrorist groups or groups associated with the Government of 
    Iran; and
        (2) receiving commitments from such elements to promote respect 
    for human rights and the rule of law.
    (f) Definition.--In this section, the term ``appropriate 
congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives.
    (g) Funding.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated in this 
Act for Overseas Contingency Operations in title XV for fiscal year 
2015, there are authorized to be appropriated $1,618,000,000 to carry 
out this section. Amounts authorized to be appropriated under this 
subsection are authorized to remain available until September 30, 2016.
    (h) Authority to Accept Contributions.--The Secretary of Defense 
may accept and retain contributions, including assistance in-kind, from 
foreign governments, including the Government of Iraq, to provide 
assistance authorized under subsection (a). Any funds accepted by the 
Secretary may be credited to the account from which funds are made 
available for the provision of assistance authorized under subsection 
(a) and may be used for such purpose until expended.
    (i) Construction of Authorization.--Nothing in this section shall 
be construed to constitute a specific statutory authorization for the 
introduction of United States Armed Forces into hostilities or into 
situations wherein hostilities are clearly indicated by the 
circumstances.
    (j) Waiver Authority.--
        (1) By secretary of defense.--
            (A) In general.--For purposes of the provision of 
        assistance pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense 
        may waive any provision of law described in subparagraph (B) if 
        the Secretary--
                (i) determines that such provision of law would (but 
            for the waiver) prohibit, restrict, delay, or otherwise 
            limit the provision of such assistance; and
                (ii) submits to the appropriate congressional 
            committees a notice of and justification for the waiver and 
            the provision of law to be waived.
            (B) Provisions of law.--The provisions of law described in 
        this subparagraph are the following:
                (i) Any provision of law relating to the acquisition of 
            items and support services.
                (ii) Sections 40 and 40A of the Arms Export Control Act 
            (22 U.S.C. 2780 and 2785).
        (2) By president.--For purposes of the provision of assistance 
    pursuant to subsection (a), the President may waive any provision 
    of law other than a provision of law described in paragraph (1)(B) 
    if the President determines that it is vital to the national 
    security interests of the United States to waive such provision of 
    law. Such waiver shall not take effect until 15 days after the date 
    on which the President notifies the appropriate congressional 
    committees of such determination and the provision of law to be 
    waived.
        (3) Report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act the President shall transmit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report that provides a 
        specific list of provisions of law that need to be waived under 
        this subsection for purposes of the provision of assistance 
        pursuant to subsection (a) and a justification for each such 
        waiver.
            (B) Update.--The President shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees an update of the report 
        required by subparagraph (A) not later than 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
    (k) Cost-Sharing Requirement.--
        (1) In general.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
    under this subsection, not more than 60 percent of such funds may 
    be obligated or expended until not later than 15 days after the 
    date on which the Secretary of Defense certifies to the appropriate 
    congressional committees and leadership of the House of 
    Representatives and the Senate that an amount equal to not less 
    than 40 percent of the amount authorized to be appropriated to 
    carry out this section has been contributed by other countries and 
    entities for the purposes described in subsection (a), which may 
    include contributions of in-kind support for forces described in 
    subsection (a), as determined from October 1, 2014, of which not 
    less than 50 percent of such amount contributed by other countries 
    and entities has been contributed by the Government of Iraq.
        (2) Exception.--The limitation in paragraph (1) shall not apply 
    if the Secretary of Defense determines, in writing, that the 
    national security objectives of the United States will be 
    compromised by the application of the limitation to any such 
    assistance, and notifies the appropriate congressional committees 
    not less than 15 days in advance of the exemption taking effect, 
    including a justification for the Secretary's determination and a 
    description of the assistance to be exempted from the application 
    of such limitation.
SEC. 1237. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT 
OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE OFFICE OF SECURITY COOPERATION IN 
IRAQ.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (f)(1) of section 1215 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 
Stat. 1631; 10 U.S.C. 113 note), as most recently amended by section 
1214 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
(Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 906; 10 U.S.C. 113 note), is further 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2014'' and inserting ``fiscal 
    year 2015'';
        (2) by striking ``non-operational''; and
        (3) by striking ``in an institutional environment'' and 
    inserting ``at a base or facility of the Government of Iraq''.
    (b) Amount Available.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (c), by striking ``fiscal year 2014 may not 
    exceed $209,000,000'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2015 may not 
    exceed $140,000,000''; and
        (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``fiscal year 2014'' and 
    inserting ``fiscal year 2015''.

         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

SEC. 1241. LIMITATION ON MILITARY COOPERATION BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES 
AND THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
for fiscal year 2015 for the Department of Defense may be used for any 
bilateral military-to-military cooperation between the Governments of 
the United States and the Russian Federation until the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, certifies to the 
appropriate congressional committees that--
        (1) the Russian Federation has ceased its occupation of 
    Ukrainian territory and its aggressive activities that threaten the 
    sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and members of the 
    North Atlantic Treaty Organization; and
        (2) the Russian Federation is abiding by the terms of and 
    taking steps in support of the Minsk Protocol, signed on September 
    5, 2014, regarding a ceasefire in eastern Ukraine.
    (b) Nonapplicability.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall not 
apply to--
        (1) any activities necessary to ensure the compliance of the 
    United States with its obligations or the exercise of rights of the 
    United States under any bilateral or multilateral arms control or 
    nonproliferation agreement or any other treaty obligation of the 
    United States; and
        (2) any activities required to provide logistical or other 
    support to the conduct of United States or North Atlantic Treaty 
    Organization military operations in Afghanistan or the withdrawal 
    from Afghanistan.
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the limitation in 
subsection (a) if--
        (1) the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
    Secretary of State--
            (A) determines that the waiver is in the national security 
        interest of the United States; and
            (B) submits to the appropriate congressional committees--
                (i) a notification that the waiver is in the national 
            security interest of the United States and a description of 
            the national security interest covered by the waiver; and
                (ii) a report explaining why the Secretary of Defense 
            cannot make the certification under subsection (a); and
        (2) a period of 15 days has elapsed following the date on which 
    the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
    State, submits the information in the report under subparagraph 
    (B)(ii).
    (d) Exception for Certain Military Bases.--The certification 
requirement specified in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) shall not 
apply to military bases of the Russian Federation in Ukraine's Crimean 
peninsula operating in accordance with its 1997 agreement on the Status 
and Conditions of the Black Sea Fleet Stationing on the Territory of 
Ukraine.
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
    (f) Effective Date.--This section takes effect on the date of the 
enactment of this Act and applies with respect to funds described in 
subsection (a) that are unobligated on or after such date of enactment.
SEC. 1242. NOTIFICATION AND ASSESSMENT OF PROPOSAL TO MODIFY OR 
INTRODUCE NEW AIRCRAFT OR SENSORS FOR FLIGHT BY THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION 
UNDER OPEN SKIES TREATY.
    (a) Notification.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which 
the Russian Federation submits to the States Parties to the Open Skies 
Treaty a proposal to modify or introduce a new aircraft or sensor for 
flight by the Russian Federation under the Open Skies Treaty, the 
President shall notify the appropriate committees of Congress of such 
proposal and the relevant details thereof.
    (b) Assessment.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days prior to the date on 
    which the United States intends to agree to a proposal described in 
    subsection (a), the Director of National Intelligence, jointly with 
    the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
    Staff, and in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall 
    submit to the appropriate committees of Congress an assessment of 
    such proposal on the national security of the United States.
        (2) Additional element.--The assessment required by paragraph 
    (1) shall include a description of any plans of the United States 
    to mitigate the effect of the proposal on the national security of 
    the United States, including an analysis of the cost and 
    effectiveness of any such plans.
        (3) Form.--The assessment required by paragraph (1) may be 
    submitted in classified or unclassified form as appropriate.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
    committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees;
            (B) the Select Committee on Intelligence and the Committee 
        on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (C) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence and the 
        Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
        (2) Open skies treaty.--The term ``Open Skies Treaty'' means 
    the Treaty on Open Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 1992, and 
    entered into force January 1, 2002.
SEC. 1243. LIMITATIONS ON PROVIDING CERTAIN MISSILE DEFENSE INFORMATION 
TO THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    Section 1246(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 923) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2016'' and inserting 
    ``2017'';
        (2) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by inserting after ``2014'' the following: ``or 2015''; 
        and
            (B) by adding at the end before the period the following: 
        ``or information relating to velocity at burnout of United 
        States missile defense interceptors or targets''; and
        (3) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs of the House of Representatives'' after ``congressional 
    defense committees''.
SEC. 1244. REPORT ON NON-COMPLIANCE BY THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION WITH ITS 
OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE INF TREATY.
    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) It was the object and purpose of the INF Treaty to 
    eliminate the production or deployment of ground launched ballistic 
    and cruise missiles with a range of between 500 and 5,500 
    kilometers, which was accomplished in 1992.
        (2) The July 2014 Department of State annual report on 
    ``Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, Nonproliferation, 
    and Disarmament Agreements and Commitments'' stated that ``The 
    United States has determined that the Russian Federation is in 
    violation of its obligations under the INF Treaty not to possess, 
    produce, or flight-test a ground-launched cruise missile (GLCM) 
    with a range capability of 500km to 5,500km, or to possess or 
    produce launchers of such missiles.''.
        (3) In a letter to the Senate Armed Services Committee dated 
    October 23, 2014, General Martin Dempsey, Chairman of the Joint 
    Chiefs of Staff, wrote ``these violations are a serious challenge 
    to the security of the United States and our allies. These actions, 
    particularly when placed in the broader context of Russian regional 
    aggression, must be met with a strategic response.''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the Russian Federation's actions in violation of its 
    obligations under the INF Treaty adversely affect the national 
    security of the United States and its allies, including the members 
    of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and those in East 
    Asia;
        (2) the Government of the Russian Federation is responsible for 
    this violation and also for returning to compliance with the INF 
    Treaty;
        (3) it is in the national security interests of the United 
    States and its allies for the INF Treaty to remain in effect and 
    for the Russian Federation to return to full and verifiable 
    compliance with all its obligations under the INF Treaty; and
        (4) as identified in section 1061 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 
    Stat. 865), the President should take appropriate actions to 
    resolve the issues relating to noncompliance by the Russian 
    Federation with its obligations under the INF Treaty.
    (c) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a report on noncompliance by 
    the Russian Federation with its obligations under the INF Treaty.
        (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) An assessment of the effect of Russian noncompliance on 
        the national security interests of the United States and its 
        allies, including the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and 
        those in East Asia.
            (B) A description of the President's plan to resolve issues 
        related to Russian noncompliance, including--
                (i) actions that have been taken, and what further 
            actions are planned or warranted by the United States;
                (ii) plans to address Russian noncompliance 
            diplomatically with the Russian Federation to resolve 
            concerns about such noncompliance and bring Russia back 
            into full compliance with the INF Treaty;
                (iii) an assessment of possible steps (including 
            verification measures) that would permit confidence that 
            the Russian Federation has returned to full compliance; and
                (iv) the status of any United States efforts to develop 
            coordinated or cooperative responses with allies.
            (C) An assessment of whether Russian noncompliance 
        threatens the viability of the INF Treaty, whether such 
        noncompliance constitutes a material breach of the INF Treaty, 
        and whether it is in the interests of the United States to 
        remain a party to the INF Treaty if such noncompliance 
        continues.
        (3) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Briefings Required.--At the time of the submission of the 
report required under subsection (c), and every six months thereafter 
until the date on which the Russian Federation is in compliance with 
its obligations under the INF Treaty, the Secretary of State, jointly 
with the Secretary of Defense and the heads of such other departments 
or agencies as appropriate, shall provide to the appropriate 
congressional committees a briefing on the status of United States 
efforts to resolve its concerns relating to noncompliance by the 
Russian Federation with its obligations under the INF Treaty.
    (e) Notification.--In the event the President determines that the 
Russian Federation has deployed, or intends to deploy, systems that 
violate the INF Treaty, the President shall promptly notify the 
appropriate congressional committees of such determination and any 
plans to respond to such deployments.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees;
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Select 
        Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (C) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Permanent 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) INF treaty.--The term ``INF Treaty'' means the Treaty 
    Between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet 
    Socialist Republics on the Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range 
    and Shorter-Range Missiles, commonly referred to as the 
    Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, signed at 
    Washington December 8, 1987, and entered into force June 1, 1988.
SEC. 1245. ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY AND SECURITY DEVELOPMENTS 
INVOLVING THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than June 1 of each year, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report, in both classified and unclassified form, on the 
security and military strategies and capabilities of the Russian 
Federation (in this section referred to as ``Russia'').
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--The report required under subsection 
(a) shall include the following:
        (1) An assessment of the security priorities and objectives of 
    Russia, including those priorities and objectives that would affect 
    the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Middle East, and 
    the People's Republic of China.
        (2) A description of the goals and factors shaping Russian 
    security strategy and military strategy, including military 
    spending and investment priorities and their alignment with the 
    security priorities and objectives described in paragraph (1).
        (3) An assessment of the force structure of the Russian 
    military.
        (4) A description of Russia's current missile defense strategy 
    and capabilities, including efforts to develop missile defense 
    capabilities.
        (5) A description of developments in Russian military doctrine 
    and training.
        (6) An assessment of the tactics, techniques, and procedures 
    used by Russia in operations in Ukraine.
        (7) An assessment of the proliferation activities of Russia and 
    Russian entities, as a supplier of materials, technologies, or 
    expertise relating to nuclear weapons or other weapons of mass 
    destruction or missile systems.
        (8) A description of Russia's asymmetric capabilities, 
    including its strategy and efforts to develop and deploy electronic 
    warfare, space and counterspace, and cyber warfare capabilities, 
    including details on the number of malicious cyber incidents and 
    associated activities against Department of Defense networks that 
    are known or suspected to have been conducted or directed by the 
    Government of the Russian Federation.
        (9) A description of Russia's nuclear strategy and associated 
    doctrines and nuclear capabilities, including the size and state of 
    Russia's nuclear weapons stockpile, its nuclear weapons production 
    capacities, and plans for developing its nuclear capabilities.
        (10) A description of Russia's anti-access and area denial 
    capabilities.
        (11) A description of Russia's modernization program for its 
    command, control, communications, computers, intelligence, 
    surveillance, and reconnaissance program and its applications for 
    Russia's precision guided weapons.
        (12) In consultation with the Secretary of Energy and the 
    Secretary of State, developments regarding United States-Russian 
    engagement and cooperation on security matters.
        (13) The current state of United States military-to-military 
    cooperation with Russia's armed forces, which shall include the 
    following:
            (A) A comprehensive and coordinated strategy for such 
        military-to-military cooperation.
            (B) A summary of all such military-to-military cooperation 
        during the one-year period ending on the day before the date of 
        submission of the report, including a summary of topics 
        discussed.
            (C) A description of such military-to-military cooperation 
        planned for the 12-month period beginning on the date of 
        submission of the report.
            (D) An assessment by the Secretary of Defense of the 
        benefits that Russia expects to gain from such military-to-
        military cooperation.
            (E) An assessment by the Secretary of Defense of the 
        benefits the Department of Defense expects to gain from such 
        military-to-military cooperation, and any concerns regarding 
        such cooperation.
            (F) An assessment by the Secretary of Defense of how such 
        military-to-military cooperation fits into the larger security 
        relationship between the United States and Russia.
        (14) A description of changes to United States policy on 
    military-to-military contacts with Russia resulting from Russia's 
    annexation of Crimea.
        (15) Other military and security developments involving Russia 
    that the Secretary of Defense considers relevant to United States 
    national security.
    (c) Nonduplication.--If any information required under subsection 
(b) has been included in another report or notification previously 
submitted to Congress as required by law, the Secretary of Defense may 
provide a list of such reports and notifications at the time of 
submitting the report required by subsection (a) in lieu of including 
such information in the report required by subsection (a).
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
    (e) Repeal of Superseded Authority.--Section 10 of the Support for 
the Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of 
Ukraine Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-95) is repealed.
    (f) Sunset.--This section shall terminate on June 1, 2018.
SEC. 1246. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO ENTER INTO CONTRACTS OR OTHER 
AGREEMENTS WITH ROSOBORONEXPORT.
    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act for fiscal year 2015 may be used to enter into a contract, 
memorandum of understanding, or cooperative agreement with, to make a 
grant to, or to provide a loan or loan guarantee to Rosoboronexport or 
a subsidiary that is publicly known to be controlled by 
Rosoboronexport.
    (b) Waiver.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (3), the Secretary of 
    Defense may waive the application of subsection (a) with respect to 
    a contract or other agreement for the supply of spare parts for, or 
    conduct of any other activity related to, the maintenance of 
    helicopters operated by the Afghan National Security Forces or 
    otherwise purchased by the Department of Defense only if, prior to 
    issuing the waiver, the Secretary submits to the congressional 
    defense committees a certification described in paragraph (2).
        (2) Certification.--A certification referred to in paragraph 
    (1) is a certification that contains the following:
            (A) A determination of the Commander of United States 
        forces in Afghanistan that--
                (i) the supply of spare parts or conduct of the related 
            activity is critical to the success of the mission of the 
            Afghan National Security Forces in Afghanistan; and
                (ii) the failure to supply spare parts or conduct the 
            related activity would have a negative impact on the 
            mission of United States forces in Afghanistan.
            (B) A determination of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics that no practicable 
        alternative exists to entering into such contract or other 
        agreement for supply of spare parts or conduct of the related 
        activity.
            (C) A determination of the Secretary of Defense, after 
        consideration of the determinations described in subparagraphs 
        (A) and (B), that the waiver is in the national security 
        interests of the United States.
        (3) Initial limitation.--The Secretary of Defense may exercise 
    the authority of paragraph (1) beginning on or after the date on 
    which the Secretary submits the report required by the matter 
    relating to section 1531 in the Joint Explanatory Statement to 
    accompany the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2014 (H.R. 3304, One Hundred Thirteenth Congress) regarding the 
    potential to incorporate United States-manufactured rotary wing 
    aircraft into the Afghan National Security Forces after the current 
    program of record is completed.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the following:
        (1) A list of known transfers of lethal military equipment by 
    Rosoboronexport to the Government of the Syria since March 15, 
    2011.
        (2) A list of known contracts, if any, that Rosoboronexport has 
    signed with the Government of the Syria since March 15, 2011.
        (3) A list of existing contracts, subcontracts, memoranda of 
    understanding, cooperative agreements, grants, loans, and loan 
    guarantees between the Department of Defense and Rosoboronexport, 
    including a description of the transactions, signing dates, values, 
    and quantities.
        (4) A discussion of what role, if any, Rosoboronexport has had 
    in providing military weapons, including heavy weapons, to the 
    rebel forces in eastern Ukraine.
SEC. 1247. REPORT ON THE NEW START TREATY.
    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) There have been significant changes in the geopolitical 
    environment during 2014, including developments that pose a 
    challenge to the national security interests of the United States.
        (2) The July 2014 Department of State annual report on 
    ``Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, Nonproliferation, 
    and Disarmament Agreements and Commitments'' stated that ``The 
    United States has determined that the Russian Federation is in 
    violation of its obligations under the INF Treaty not to possess, 
    produce, or flight-test a ground-launched cruise missile (GLCM) 
    with a range capability of 500km to 5,500km, or to possess or 
    produce launchers of such missiles.''.
        (3) The July 2014 Department of State ``Annual Report on 
    Implementation of the New START Treaty'' stated that ``Based on the 
    information available as of December 31, 2013, the United States 
    certifies the Russian Federation to be in compliance with the terms 
    of the New START Treaty.''.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff shall jointly submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report stating the reasons continued 
implementation of the New START Treaty is in the national security 
interests of the United States.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
        (2) INF treaty.--The term ``INF Treaty'' means the Treaty 
    Between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet 
    Socialist Republics on the Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range 
    and Shorter-Range Missiles, commonly referred to as the 
    Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, signed at 
    Washington December 8, 1987, and entered into force June 1, 1988.
        (3) New start treaty.--The term ``New START Treaty'' means the 
    Treaty between the United States of America and the Russian 
    Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of 
    Strategic Offensive Arms, signed on April 8, 2010, and entered into 
    force on February 5, 2011.

        Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Asia-Pacific Region

SEC. 1251. STRATEGY TO PRIORITIZE UNITED STATES DEFENSE INTERESTS IN 
THE ASIA-PACIFIC REGION.
    (a) Required Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report that contains the 
    strategy of the Department of Defense to prioritize United States 
    defense interests in the Asia-Pacific region.
        (2) Matters to be included.--The report required by paragraph 
    (1) shall address the following:
            (A) United States national security interests in the Asia-
        Pacific region.
            (B) The security environment, including threats to global 
        and regional United States national security interests 
        emanating from the Asia-Pacific region, including efforts by 
        the People's Republic of China to advance their national 
        interests in the Asia-Pacific region.
            (C) Regional multilateral institutions, such as the 
        Association of Southeast Asia Nations (ASEAN).
            (D) Bilateral security cooperation relationships, including 
        military-to-military engagements and security assistance.
            (E) United States military presence, posture, and 
        capabilities supporting the rebalance to the Asia-Pacific 
        region.
            (F) Humanitarian and disaster relief response capabilities.
            (G) International rules-based structures.
            (H) Actions the Department of Defense could take, in 
        cooperation with other Federal agencies, to advance United 
        States national security interests in the Asia-Pacific region.
            (I) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines 
        to be appropriate.
        (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex 
    if necessary.
    (b) Resources.--The report required by subsection (a)(1) shall be 
informed by the results of the integrated, multi-year planning and 
budget strategy for a rebalancing of United States policy in Asia 
submitted to Congress pursuant to section 7043(a) of the Department of 
State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 
2014 (division K of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public 
Law 113-76; 128 Stat. 533)).
    (c) Annual Budget.--The President, acting through the Director of 
the Office of Management and Budget, shall ensure that the annual 
budget submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31, United 
States Code, clearly highlights programs and projects that are being 
funded in the annual budget of the United States Government that relate 
to the strategy required by subsection (a)(1) and the integrated 
strategy referred to in subsection (b).
SEC. 1252. MODIFICATIONS TO ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY AND SECURITY 
DEVELOPMENTS INVOLVING THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
    (a) Matters To Be Included.--Subsection (b)(14) of section 1202 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (Public Law 
106-65; 113 Stat. 781; 10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended by striking 
``their response'' and inserting ``their capabilities, organizational 
affiliations, roles within China's overall maritime strategy, 
activities affecting United States allies and partners, and 
responses''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section takes 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and applies with 
respect to reports required to be submitted under subsection (a) of 
section 1202 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2000 on or after that date.
SEC. 1253. MILITARY-TO-MILITARY ENGAGEMENT WITH THE GOVERNMENT OF 
BURMA.
    (a) Authorization.--The Department of Defense is authorized to 
provide the Government of Burma the following:
        (1) Consultation, education, and training on human rights, the 
    laws of armed conflict, civilian control of the military, rule of 
    law, and other legal matters.
        (2) Consultation, education, and training on English-language, 
    humanitarian and disaster relief, and improvements to medical and 
    health standards.
        (3) Courses or workshops on defense institution reform.
        (4) Observer status to bilateral or multilateral humanitarian 
    assistance and disaster relief exercises.
        (5) Aid or support in the event of a humanitarian crisis or 
    natural disaster.
    (b) Annual Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and each March 1 thereafter, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretary of State, 
    submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on 
    military-to-military engagement between the United States Armed 
    Forces and the Burmese military.
        (2) Elements.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall include 
    the following:
            (A) A description of the military-to-military activities 
        between the United States and Burma, and how engagement with 
        the Burmese military supports the United States national 
        security strategy and promotes reform in Burma.
            (B) A description of the objectives of the United States 
        for developing the military-to-military relationship with the 
        Burmese military, how the United States measures progress 
        toward such objectives, and the implications of failing to 
        achieve such objectives.
            (C) A description and assessment of the political, 
        military, economic, and civil society reforms being undertaken 
        by the Government of Burma, including those affecting--
                (i) individual freedoms and human rights of the Burmese 
            people, including those of ethnic and religious minorities 
            and internally displaced populations;
                (ii) the peaceful settlement of armed conflicts between 
            the Government of Burma and ethnic minority groups in 
            Burma;
                (iii) civilian control of the armed forces;
                (iv) constitutional and electoral reforms;
                (v) access for the purposes of human rights monitoring 
            and humanitarian assistance to all areas in Burma, and 
            cooperation with civilian authorities to investigate and 
            resolve cases of human rights violations;
                (vi) governmental transparency and accountability; and
                (vii) respect for the laws of armed conflict and human 
            rights, including with respect to child soldiers.
            (D) A description and assessment of relationships of the 
        Government of Burma with unlawful or sanctioned entities.
        (3) Form.--Each report under this subsection shall be submitted 
    in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
        (4) Sunset.--The requirement to submit additional reports under 
    this subsection shall terminate at the end of the 5-year period 
    beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--No Department of Defense assistance to 
the Government of Burma is authorized by this Act except as provided in 
this section.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives.
SEC. 1254. REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MUNITIONS STRATEGY OF THE 
UNITED STATES PACIFIC COMMAND.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than April 1, 2015, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report on the munitions strategy of the United States Pacific Command 
to address deficiencies in the ability of the United States Pacific 
Command to execute major operational plans.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) An identification of current and projected critical 
    munitions requirements, including as identified in the most-recent 
    future-years defense program submitted to Congress by the Secretary 
    of Defense pursuant to section 221 of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) An assessment of--
            (A) significant munitions gaps and deficiencies; and
            (B) munitions capabilities and necessary munitions 
        investments to address identified gaps and deficiencies.
        (3) A description of current and planned munitions programs to 
    address munitions gaps and deficiencies identified in paragraph 
    (2), including with respect to--
            (A) research, development, test, and evaluation efforts;
            (B) cost, schedule, performance, and budget, to the extent 
        such information is available; and
            (C) known industrial base issues.
        (4) An assessment of infrastructure deficiencies or needed 
    enhancements to ensure adequate munitions storage and munitions 
    deployment capability.
        (5) Any other matters concerning the munitions strategy of the 
    United States Pacific Command the Secretary of Defense determines 
    to be appropriate.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) may be submitted 
in classified or unclassified form.
SEC. 1255. MISSILE DEFENSE COOPERATION IN NORTHEAST ASIA.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that increased 
cooperation on missile defense among the United States, Japan, and the 
Republic of Korea would enhance the security of allies of the United 
States in Northeast Asia, increase the defense of forward-based forces 
of the United States, and enhance the protection of the United States 
with regard to threats from the Korean Peninsula.
    (b) Assessment Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct an 
assessment to identify opportunities for increasing missile defense 
cooperation among the United States, Japan, and the Republic of Korea, 
and to evaluate options for enhanced short-range missile, rocket, and 
artillery defense capabilities to address threats from the Korean 
Peninsula.
    (c) Elements.--The assessment under subsection (b) shall include 
the following:
        (1) Candidate areas for increasing missile defense cooperation, 
    including greater information sharing, systems integration, and 
    joint operations.
        (2) Potential challenges and limitations to enabling such 
    cooperation and options for mitigating such challenges and 
    limitations.
        (3) An assessment of the utility of short-range missile defense 
    and counter-rocket, artillery, and mortar system capabilities on 
    the Korean Peninsula, including with respect to--
            (A) meeting the military needs for defense of the Korean 
        Peninsula;
            (B) cost, schedule, and availability;
            (C) technology maturity and risk; and
            (D) consideration of alternatives.
        (4) Such other matters as the Secretary of Defense determines 
    to be appropriate.
    (d) Briefing Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to 
the congressional defense committees a briefing on the assessment under 
subsection (b).
SEC. 1256. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND REPORT ON TAIWAN AND ITS CONTRIBUTION 
TO REGIONAL PEACE AND STABILITY.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States reaffirms its security commitments under the Taiwan Relations 
Act (Public Law 96-8) as the cornerstone of United States relations 
with Taiwan and as a key instrument of peace, security, and stability 
in the Taiwan Strait since the enactment of such Act in 1979.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than December 1, 2015, the 
Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff, submit to the congressional defense committees, 
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the self-
defense capabilities of Taiwan.
    (c) Elements.--The report required by subsection (b) shall contain 
the following:
        (1) A description of the key assumptions made regarding the 
    impact of the Chinese People's Liberation Army on the maritime or 
    territorial security of Taiwan, including the Chinese People's 
    Liberation Army's--
            (A) undersea and surface warfare capabilities in the 
        littoral areas in and around the Taiwan Strait;
            (B) amphibious and heavy sealift capabilities;
            (C) capabilities to establish air dominance over Taiwan; 
        and
            (D) capabilities of the Second Artillery Corps.
        (2) An assessment of the force posture, capabilities, and 
    readiness of the armed forces of Taiwan for maintaining the 
    maritime or territorial security of Taiwan, including an assessment 
    of Taiwan's--
            (A) undersea and surface warfare capabilities;
            (B) air and land-based capabilities;
            (C) early warning and command and control capabilities; and
            (D) other deterrent, anti-access and area-denial 
        capabilities, or asymmetric capabilities that could contribute 
        to Taiwan's self-defense.
        (3) Recommendations for further security cooperation and 
    assistance efforts between Taiwan and the United States.
        (4) Any other matters the Secretary determines to be 
    appropriate.
    (d) Form.--The report required by subsection (b) may be submitted 
in classified or unclassified form.
    (e) Nonduplication of Efforts.--If any information required under 
subsection (c) has been included in another report or notification 
previously submitted to Congress as required by law, the Secretary of 
Defense may provide a list of such reports and notifications at the 
time of submitting the report required by subsection (b) in lieu of 
including such information.
SEC. 1257. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF THE ABILITY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE TO COUNTER ANTI-ACCESS AND AREA-DENIAL STRATEGIES, 
CAPABILITIES, AND OTHER KEY TECHNOLOGIES OF POTENTIAL ADVERSARIES.
    (a) Assessment Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall enter into an 
    agreement with an independent entity to conduct an assessment of 
    the ability of the Department of Defense to counter anti-access and 
    area-denial strategies, capabilities, and other key technologies of 
    potential adversaries.
        (2) Matters to be included.--The assessment required under 
    paragraph (1) shall include the following:
            (A) An assessment of anti-access and area-denial 
        strategies, capabilities, and other key technologies of 
        potential adversaries during each of the fiscal year periods 
        described in paragraph (3) that would represent a significant 
        challenge to deployed forces and systems of the United States 
        military, including an assessment of the extent to which such 
        strategies, capabilities, and other key technologies could 
        affect United States military operations.
            (B) An assessment of gaps and deficiencies in the ability 
        of the Department of Defense to address anti-access and area-
        denial strategies, capabilities, and other key technologies 
        described in subparagraph (A), including an assessment of the 
        adequacy of current strategies, programs, and investments of 
        the Department of Defense.
            (C) Recommendations for adjustments in United States policy 
        and strategy, force posture, investments in capabilities, 
        systems and technologies, and changes in business and 
        management processes, or other novel approaches to address gaps 
        and deficiencies described in subparagraph (B), or to restore, 
        maintain, or expand United States military technological 
        advantages, particularly in those areas in which potential 
        adversaries are closing gaps or have achieved technological 
        superiority with respect to the United States.
            (D) Any other matters the independent entity determines to 
        be appropriate.
        (3) Fiscal year periods described.--The fiscal year periods 
    described in this paragraph are the following:
            (A) Fiscal years 2015 through 2019.
            (B) Fiscal years 2020 through 2030.
            (C) Fiscal years 2031 and thereafter.
    (b) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2016, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report that includes the assessment required under subsection (a) 
    and any other matters the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
        (2) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex 
    if necessary.
    (c) Department of Defense Support.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
provide the independent entity described in subsection (a) with timely 
access to appropriate information, data, resources, and analysis so 
that the entity may conduct a thorough and independent assessment as 
required under subsection (a).
SEC. 1258. SENSE OF CONGRESS REAFFIRMING SECURITY COOPERATION WITH 
JAPAN AND THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States values its alliances with the Governments 
    of Japan and the Republic of Korea as cornerstones of peace and 
    security in the region, based on shared values of democracy, the 
    rule of law, free and open markets, and respect for human rights;
        (2) the United States welcomes Japan's new policy of collective 
    self-defense, which will enable Japan to contribute more 
    proactively to regional and global peace and security, as well as 
    Japan's recent increases in defense funding, adoption of a National 
    Security Strategy, and formation of security institutions such as 
    the Japanese National Security Council;
        (3) the United States reaffirms its commitment to the 
    Government of Japan under Article V of the Treaty of Mutual 
    Cooperation and Security between the United States of America and 
    Japan that ``[e]ach Party recognizes that an armed attack against 
    either Party in the territories under the administration of Japan 
    would be dangerous to its own peace and safety and declares that it 
    would act to meet the common danger in accordance with its 
    constitutional provisions and processes'';
        (4) the United States welcomes the Republic of Korea's 
    ratification of a new five-year Special Measures Agreement, which 
    establishes the framework for Republic of Korea contributions to 
    offset costs associated with the stationing of United States forces 
    in the Republic of Korea, as well as efforts by the Republic of 
    Korea to enhance its defense capabilities, including its recent 
    decision to acquire surveillance and strike capabilities;
        (5) the United States and the Republic of Korea share deep 
    concerns that the nuclear and ballistic missiles programs of the 
    Democratic People's Republic of Korea and its repeated provocations 
    pose grave threats to peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula 
    and to Northeast Asia, that the United States and the Republic of 
    Korea and will work together to achieve the peaceful 
    denuclearization of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and 
    that the United States and the Republic of Korea remain fully 
    committed to continuing close cooperation on the full range of 
    issues related to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea; and
        (6) the United States welcomes greater security cooperation 
    with, and among, Japan and the Republic of Korea to promote mutual 
    interests and to address shared concerns.
SEC. 1259. REPORT ON MARITIME SECURITY STRATEGY IN THE ASIA-PACIFIC 
REGION.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of 
the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives a report that outlines the strategy of the Department 
of Defense with regard to maritime security in the Asia-Pacific region, 
with particular emphasis on the South China Sea and the East China Sea.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall outline 
the strategy described in that subsection and include the following:
        (1) An assessment of how the actions of the People's Republic 
    of China in the South China Sea and the East China Sea have 
    affected the status quo with regard to competing territorial and 
    maritime claims and United States security interests in those seas.
        (2) An assessment of how the naval and other maritime 
    strategies and capabilities of the People's Republic of China, 
    including military and law enforcement capabilities, affect the 
    strategy in the Asia-Pacific region.
        (3) An assessment of how anti-access and area denial strategies 
    and capabilities of the People's Republic of China in the Asia-
    Pacific region, including weapons and technologies, affect the 
    strategy.
        (4) A description of any ongoing or planned changes in United 
    States military capabilities, operations, and posture in the Asia-
    Pacific region to support the strategy.
        (5) A description of any current or planned bilateral or 
    regional naval or maritime capacity-building initiatives in the 
    Asia-Pacific region.
        (6) An assessment of how the strategy leverages military-to-
    military engagements between the United States and the People's 
    Republic of China to reduce the potential for miscalculation and 
    tensions in the South China Sea and the East China Sea, including a 
    specific description of the effects of such engagements on 
    particular incidents or interactions involving the People's 
    Republic of China in those seas.
        (7) Any other matters the Secretary may determine to be 
    appropriate.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1259A. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON TAIWAN MARITIME CAPABILITIES AND 
EXERCISE PARTICIPATION.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States should consider opportunities to help 
    enhance the maritime capabilities and nautical skills of the 
    Taiwanese navy that may contribute to Taiwan's self-defense and to 
    regional peace and stability; and
        (2) the People's Republic of China and Taiwan should be 
    afforded opportunities to participate in the humanitarian 
    assistance and disaster relief portions of future multilateral 
    exercises, such as the Pacific Partnership, Pacific Angel, and Rim 
    of the Pacific (RIMPAC) exercises, to increase their respective 
    capacities to conduct these types of operations.
SEC. 1259B. MODIFICATION OF MATTERS FOR DISCUSSION IN ANNUAL REPORTS OF 
UNITED STATES-CHINA ECONOMIC AND SECURITY REVIEW COMMISSION.
    (a) Matters for Discussion.--Section 1238(c)(2) of the Floyd D. 
Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as 
enacted into law by Public Law 106-398; 22 U.S.C. 7002(c)(2)) is 
amended by striking subparagraphs (A) through (J) and inserting the 
following new subparagraphs:
            ``(A) The role of the People's Republic of China in the 
        proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and other weapon 
        systems (including systems and technologies of a dual use 
        nature), including actions the United States might take to 
        encourage the People's Republic of China to cease such 
        practices.
            ``(B) The qualitative and quantitative nature of the 
        transfer of United States production activities to the People's 
        Republic of China, including the relocation of manufacturing, 
        advanced technology and intellectual property, and research and 
        development facilities, the impact of such transfers on the 
        national security of the United States (including the 
        dependence of the national security industrial base of the 
        United States on imports from China), the economic security of 
        the United States, and employment in the United States, and the 
        adequacy of United States export control laws in relation to 
        the People's Republic of China.
            ``(C) The effects of the need for energy and natural 
        resources in the People's Republic of China on the foreign and 
        military policies of the People's Republic of China, the impact 
        of the large and growing economy of the People's Republic of 
        China on world energy and natural resource supplies, prices, 
        and the environment, and the role the United States can play 
        (including through joint research and development efforts and 
        technological assistance) in influencing the energy and natural 
        resource policies of the People's Republic of China.
            ``(D) Foreign investment by the United States in the 
        People's Republic of China and by the People's Republic of 
        China in the United States, including an assessment of its 
        economic and security implications, the challenges to market 
        access confronting potential United States investment in the 
        People's Republic of China, and foreign activities by financial 
        institutions in the People's Republic of China.
            ``(E) The military plans, strategy and doctrine of the 
        People's Republic of China, the structure and organization of 
        the People's Republic of China military, the decision-making 
        process of the People's Republic of China military, the 
        interaction between the civilian and military leadership in the 
        People's Republic of China, the development and promotion 
        process for leaders in the People's Republic of China military, 
        deployments of the People's Republic of China military, 
        resources available to the People's Republic of China military 
        (including the development and execution of budgets and the 
        allocation of funds), force modernization objectives and trends 
        for the People's Republic of China military, and the 
        implications of such objectives and trends for the national 
        security of the United States.
            ``(F) The strategic economic and security implications of 
        the cyber capabilities and operations of the People's Republic 
        of China.
            ``(G) The national budget, fiscal policy, monetary policy, 
        capital controls, and currency management practices of the 
        People's Republic of China, their impact on internal stability 
        in the People's Republic of China, and their implications for 
        the United States.
            ``(H) The drivers, nature, and implications of the growing 
        economic, technological, political, cultural, people-to-people, 
        and security relations of the People's Republic of China's with 
        other countries, regions, and international and regional 
        entities (including multilateral organizations), including the 
        relationship among the United States, Taiwan, and the People's 
        Republic of China.
            ``(I) The compliance of the People's Republic of China with 
        its commitments to the World Trade Organization, other 
        multilateral commitments, bilateral agreements signed with the 
        United States, commitments made to bilateral science and 
        technology programs, and any other commitments and agreements 
        strategic to the United States (including agreements on 
        intellectual property rights and prison labor imports), and 
        United States enforcement policies with respect to such 
        agreements.
            ``(J) The implications of restrictions on speech and access 
        to information in the People's Republic of China for its 
        relations with the United States in economic and security 
        policy, as well as any potential impact of media control by the 
        People's Republic of China on United States economic interests.
            ``(K) The safety of food, drug, and other products imported 
        from China, the measures used by the People's Republic of China 
        Government and the United States Government to monitor and 
        enforce product safety, and the role the United States can play 
        (including through technical assistance) to improve product 
        safety in the People's Republic of China.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply 
with respect to annual reports submitted under section 1238(c) of the 
Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 
after such date of enactment.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

SEC. 1261. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION FOR NON-CONVENTIONAL 
ASSISTED RECOVERY CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (h) of section 943 of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
110-417; 122 Stat. 4579), as most recently amended by section 1241 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 
113-66; 127 Stat. 920), is further amended by striking ``2015'' and 
inserting ``2016''.
    (b) Cross-Reference Amendment.--Subsection (f) of such section is 
amended by striking ``413b(e)'' and inserting ``3093(e)''.
SEC. 1262. MODIFICATION OF NATIONAL SECURITY PLANNING GUIDANCE TO DENY 
SAFE HAVENS TO AL-QAEDA AND ITS VIOLENT EXTREMIST AFFILIATES.
    (a) Modification.--Section 1032(b) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 
1571; 50 U.S.C. 3043 note) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by redesignating subparagraph (C), (D), and (E) as 
        subparagraph (D), (E), and (F), respectively;
            (B) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
            ``(C) For each specified geographic area, a description of 
        the following:
                ``(i) The feasibility of conducting multilateral 
            programs to train and equip the military forces of relevant 
            countries in the area.
                ``(ii) The authority and funding that would be required 
            to support such programs.
                ``(iii) How such programs would be implemented.
                ``(iv) How such programs would support the national 
            security priorities and interests of the United States and 
            complement other efforts of the United States Government in 
            the area and in other specified geographic areas.''; and
            (C) in subparagraph (F) (as redesignated), by striking 
        ``subparagraph (C)'' and inserting ``subparagraph (D)''; and
        (2) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ``paragraph (2)(C)'' and 
    inserting ``paragraph (2)(D)''.
    (b) Report.--Section 1032(b) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1571; 50 U.S.C. 
3043 note), as amended by subsection (a), is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
        ``(4) Report.--
            ``(A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of the Carl Levin and Howard P. `Buck' McKeon 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015, the 
        President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a report that contains a detailed summary of the 
        national security planning guidance required under paragraph 
        (1), including any updates thereto.
            ``(B) Form.--The report may include a classified annex as 
        determined to be necessary by the President.
            ``(C) Definition.--In this paragraph, the term `appropriate 
        congressional committees' means--
                ``(i) the congressional defense committees; and
                ``(ii) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate 
            and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
            Representatives.''.
SEC. 1263. ENHANCED AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE GOODS AND SERVICES OF DJIBOUTI 
IN SUPPORT OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACTIVITIES IN UNITED STATES AFRICA 
COMMAND AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States forces should continue to be forward 
    postured in Africa and in the Middle East;
        (2) Djibouti is in a strategic location to support United 
    States vital national security interests in the region;
        (3) the United States should take definitive steps to maintain 
    its basing access and agreements with the Government of Djibouti to 
    support United States vital national security interests in the 
    region;
        (4) the United States should devise and implement a 
    comprehensive governmental approach to engaging with the Government 
    of Djibouti to reinforce the strategic partnership between the 
    United States and Djibouti; and
        (5) the Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United 
    States Agency for International Development, in conjunction with 
    the Secretary of Defense, should take concrete steps to advance and 
    strengthen the relationship between United States and the 
    Government of Djibouti.
    (b) Authority.--In the case of a good or service to be acquired in 
direct support of covered activities for which the Secretary of Defense 
makes a determination described in subsection (c), the Secretary may 
conduct a procurement in which--
        (1) competition is limited to goods of Djibouti or services of 
    Djibouti; or
        (2) a preference is provided for goods of Djibouti or services 
    of Djibouti.
    (c) Determination.--
        (1) In general.--A determination described in this subsection 
    is a determination by the Secretary of either of the following:
            (A) That the good or service concerned is to be used only 
        in support of covered activities.
            (B) That it is vital to the national security interests of 
        the United States to limit competition or provide a preference 
        as described in subsection (b) because such limitation or 
        preference is necessary--
                (i) to reduce--

                    (I) United States transportation costs; or
                    (II) delivery times in support of covered 
                activities; or

                (ii) to promote regional security, stability, and 
            economic prosperity in Africa.
            (C) That the good or service is of equivalent quality of a 
        good or service that would have otherwise been acquired.
        (2) Additional requirement.--A determination under paragraph 
    (1)(B) shall not be effective for purposes of a limitation or 
    preference under subsection (b) unless the Secretary also 
    determines that the limitation or preference will not adversely 
    affect--
            (A) United States military operations or stability 
        operations in the United States Africa Command area of 
        responsibility; or
            (B) the United States industrial base.
    (d) Reporting and Oversight.--In exercising the authority under 
subsection (b) to procure goods or services in support of covered 
activities, the Secretary of Defense--
        (1) in the case of the procurement of services, shall ensure 
    that the procurement is conducted in accordance with the management 
    structure implemented pursuant to section 2330(a) of title 10, 
    United States Code;
        (2) shall ensure that such goods or services are identified and 
    reported under a single, joint Department of Defense-wide system 
    for the management and accountability of contractors accompanying 
    United States forces operating overseas or in contingency 
    operations (such as the synchronized predeployment and operational 
    tracker (SPOT) system); and
        (3) shall ensure that the United States Africa Command has 
    sufficiently trained staff and adequate resources to conduct 
    oversight of procurements carried out pursuant to subsection (b), 
    including oversight to detect and deter fraud, waste, and abuse.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Covered activities.--The term ``covered activities'' means 
    Department of Defense activities in the United States Africa 
    Command area of responsibility.
        (2) Good of djibouti.--The term ``good of Djibouti'' means a 
    good wholly the growth, product, or manufacture of Djibouti.
        (3) Service of djibouti.--The term ``service of Djibouti'' 
    means a service performed by a person that--
            (A)(i) is operating primarily in Djibouti; or
            (ii) is making a significant contribution to the economy of 
        Djibouti through payment of taxes or use of products, 
        materials, or labor of Djibouti, as determined by the Secretary 
        of State; and
            (B) is properly licensed or registered by authorities of 
        the Government of Djibouti, as determined by the Secretary of 
        State.
    (f) Termination.--The authority and requirements of this section 
expire at the close of September 30, 2018.
SEC. 1264. TREATMENT OF THE KURDISTAN DEMOCRATIC PARTY AND THE 
PATRIOTIC UNION OF KURDISTAN UNDER THE IMMIGRATION AND NATIONALITY ACT.
    (a) Removal of the Kurdistan Democratic Party and the Patriotic 
Union of Kurdistan From Treatment as Terrorist Organizations.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
    Kurdistan Democratic Party and the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan 
    shall be excluded from the definition of terrorist organization (as 
    defined in section 212(a)(3)(B)(vi)(III) of the Immigration and 
    Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)(B)(vi)(III))) for purposes of 
    such section 212(a)(3)(B).
        (2) Exception.--The Secretary of State, after consultation with 
    the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Attorney General, or the 
    Secretary of Homeland Security, after consultation with the 
    Secretary of State and the Attorney General, may suspend the 
    application of paragraph (1) for either or both of the groups 
    referred to in paragraph (1) in such Secretary's sole and 
    unreviewable discretion. Prior to or contemporaneous with such 
    suspension, the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland 
    Security shall report their reasons for suspension to the 
    Committees on Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the 
    Senate, the Committees on Appropriations in the House of 
    Representatives and of the Senate, the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
    of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Foreign Relations 
    of the Senate, the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
    Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
    Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
    (b) Relief Regarding Admissibility of Nonimmigrant Aliens 
Associated With the Kurdistan Democratic Party and the Patriotic Union 
of Kurdistan.--
        (1) For activities opposing the ba'ath regime.--Paragraph 
    (3)(B) of section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
    U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)(B)) shall not apply to an alien with respect to 
    activities undertaken in association with the Kurdistan Democratic 
    Party or the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan in opposition to the 
    regime of the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party and the autocratic 
    dictatorship of Saddam Hussein in Iraq.
        (2) For membership in the kurdistan democratic party and 
    patriotic union of kurdistan.--Paragraph (3)(B) of section 212(a) 
    of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)(B)) 
    shall not apply to an alien applying for a nonimmigrant visa, who 
    presents themselves for inspection to an immigration officer at a 
    port of entry as a nonimmigrant, or who is applying in the United 
    States for nonimmigrant status, and who is a member of the 
    Kurdistan Democratic Party or the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan and 
    currently serves or has previously served as a senior official 
    (such as Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, Deputy 
    Minister, President, Vice-President, Member of Parliament, 
    provincial Governor or member of the National Security Council) of 
    the Kurdistan Regional Government or the federal government of the 
    Republic of Iraq.
        (3) Exception.--Neither paragraph (1) nor paragraph (2) shall 
    apply if the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland 
    Security (or a designee of one of such Secretaries) determine in 
    their sole unreviewable discretion that such alien poses a threat 
    to the safety and security of the United States, or does not 
    warrant a visa, admission to the United States, or a grant of an 
    immigration benefit or protection, in the totality of the 
    circumstances. This provision shall be implemented by the Secretary 
    of State and the Secretary of Homeland Security in consultation 
    with the Attorney General.
    (c) Prohibition on Judicial Review.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law (whether statutory or nonstatutory), section 242 of 
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1252), sections 1361 and 
1651 of title 28, United States Code, section 2241 of such title, and 
any other habeas corpus provision of law, no court shall have 
jurisdiction to review any determination made pursuant to this section.
SEC. 1265. PROHIBITION ON INTEGRATION OF MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS OF 
CHINA INTO MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS OF UNITED STATES AND SENSE OF 
CONGRESS CONCERNING INTEGRATION OF MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS OF RUSSIA 
INTO MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS OF NATO.
    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for the 
Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to integrate a 
missile defense system of the People's Republic of China into any 
missile defense system of the United States.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that missile 
defense systems of the Russian Federation should not be integrated into 
the missile defense systems of the United States or the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization (NATO) if such integration undermines the security 
of the United States or NATO, respectively.
SEC. 1266. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS TO IMPLEMENT THE ARMS 
TRADE TREATY.
    (a) In General.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for the 
Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to implement the 
Arms Trade Treaty, or to make any change to existing programs, 
projects, or activities as approved by Congress in furtherance of, 
pursuant to, or otherwise to implement the Arms Trade Treaty, unless 
the Arms Trade Treaty has received the advice and consent of the Senate 
and has been the subject of implementing legislation, as required, by 
Congress.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to preclude the Department of Defense from assisting foreign 
countries in bringing their laws and regulations up to United States 
standards.
SEC. 1267. NOTIFICATION AND REVIEW OF POTENTIALLY SIGNIFICANT ARMS 
CONTROL NONCOMPLIANCE.
    (a) Notice to President.--If the Secretary of Defense, after 
consultation with the Secretary of State and the Director of National 
Intelligence, has substantial reason to believe that there is a case of 
foreign activity that would pose a significant threat to United States 
national security interests and that may be inconsistent with an arms 
control treaty to which the United States is a party, and such case is 
not included in, or is significantly different from a case included in, 
the most-recent annual report submitted to Congress pursuant to section 
403 of the Arms Control and Disarmament Act (22 U.S.C. 2593a), the 
Secretary of Defense shall notify the President of such belief of the 
Secretary.
    (b) Referral to Secretary of State.--If the President receives a 
notification from the Secretary of Defense under subsection (a), the 
President shall promptly refer the matter to the Secretary of State to 
arrange for an inter-agency review of the case in order to provide for 
an assessment of whether the case constitutes a significant case of 
non-compliance with an arms control treaty to which the United States 
is a party.
    (c) Notice to Congress.--Not later than 60 days after the date on 
which the President makes a referral under subsection (b), the 
Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress the results of the assessment of the case with respect to 
which the referral was made under subsection (b).
    (d) Definition.--In this section, the term ``appropriate 
congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; 
    and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    House of Representatives.
SEC. 1268. INTER-EUROPEAN AIR FORCES ACADEMY.
    (a) Operation.--The Secretary of the Air Force may operate the Air 
Force education and training facility known as the Inter-European Air 
Forces Academy (in this section referred to as the ``Academy'').
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Academy shall be to provide 
military education and training to military personnel of countries that 
are members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization or signatories to 
the Partnership for Peace Framework Documents.
    (c) Limitations.--
        (1) Concurrence of secretary of state.--Military personnel of a 
    country may be provided education and training under this section 
    only with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.
        (2) Assistance otherwise prohibited by law.--Education and 
    training may not be provided under this section to the military 
    personnel of any country that is otherwise prohibited from 
    receiving such type of assistance under any other provision of law.
    (d) Supplies and Clothing.--The Secretary of the Air Force may, 
under such conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, provide to a 
person receiving education and training under this section the 
following:
        (1) Transportation incident to such education and training.
        (2) Supplies and equipment to be used during such education and 
    training.
        (3) Billeting, food, and health services in connection with the 
    receipt of such education and training.
    (e) Living Allowance.--The Secretary of the Air Force may pay to a 
person receiving education and training under this section a living 
allowance at a rate to be prescribed by the Secretary, taking into 
account the rates of living allowances authorized for a member of the 
Armed Forces under similar circumstances.
    (f) Funding.--Amounts for the operations and maintenance of the 
Academy, and for the provision of education and training through the 
Academy, may be paid from funds available for the Air Force for 
operation and maintenance.
    (g) Annual Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the end of each 
    fiscal year in which the Secretary of the Air Force operates the 
    Academy pursuant to this section, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of 
    the House of Representatives a report on the operations of the 
    Academy during such fiscal year.
        (2) Elements.--Each report under this subsection shall set 
    forth, for the fiscal year covered by such report, the following:
            (A) A description of the operations of the Academy, 
        including a description of the education and training courses 
        provided under this section.
            (B) A summary of the number of individuals receiving 
        education and training through the Academy, set forth by 
        country of origin and education or training provided.
            (C) The amount paid by the Secretary for the operations and 
        maintenance of the Academy.
            (D) The amounts paid by the Secretary under subsections (d) 
        and (e) in connection with the provision of education and 
        training through the Academy.
            (E) Any other matters the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate.
    (h) Expiration.--The authority in subsection (a) shall expire on 
September 30, 2019.
SEC. 1269. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SUPPORT TO SECURITY OF UNITED STATES 
DIPLOMATIC FACILITIES.
    (a) Marine Corps Security Guard Program.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence 
    of the Secretary of State, shall--
            (A) develop and implement a plan to incorporate the 
        additional Marine Corps Security Guard personnel authorized 
        under section 404 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 10 U.S.C. 5983 note) at 
        United States embassies, consulates, and other facilities;
            (B) conduct an annual review of the Marine Corps Security 
        Guard Program, including--
                (i) an evaluation of whether the size and composition 
            of the Marine Corps Security Guard Program is adequate to 
            meet global diplomatic security requirements;
                (ii) an assessment of whether Marine Corps security 
            guards are appropriately deployed among facilities to 
            respond to evolving security developments and potential 
            threats to United States diplomatic facilities abroad; and
                (iii) an assessment of the mission objectives of the 
            Marine Corps Security Guard Program and the procedural 
            rules of engagement to protect diplomatic personnel under 
            the Program; and
            (C) provide an assessment of the effectiveness of 
        Department of Defense-provided Security Augmentation Units 
        utilized during the previous year to improve security at high 
        threat, high risk facilities, including an evaluation of any 
        impediments to the effectiveness of such units.
        (2) Reporting requirement.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in 
    consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees an unclassified report, with a 
    classified annex as necessary, that addresses the requirements set 
    forth in paragraph (1).
    (b) Report on ``New Normal'' and General Mission Requirements of 
United States Africa Command.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2015, the Secretary of 
    Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit 
    to the appropriate congressional committees a report on what 
    changes, if any, have been made to the force posture and structure 
    of the United States Africa Command or adjacent combatant commands 
    to respond, if requested, to a diplomatic facility's security 
    requirements (so-called ``new normal'' requirements) and general 
    mission of United States Africa Command.
        (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following elements:
            (A) A detailed description of the ``new normal'' 
        requirements in the area of responsibility of the United States 
        Africa Command.
            (B) A description of any changes required for the United 
        States Africa Command or adjacent combatant commands to meet 
        the ``new normal'' and general mission requirements in the 
        United States Africa Command area of responsibility, including 
        the gaps in capability, size, posture, agreements, basing, and 
        enabler support of crisis response forces and associated assets 
        to respond to requests for support from the Secretary of State.
            (C) A discussion and estimate of the military forces 
        required to support mission requirements of the United States 
        Africa Command and the shortfall, if any, in meeting such 
        requirements.
            (D) A discussion and estimate of the annual intelligence, 
        surveillance, and reconnaissance requirements of the United 
        States Africa Command and the shortfall, if any, in meeting 
        such requirements.
        (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1270. INFORMATION ON SANCTIONED PERSONS AND BUSINESSES THROUGH THE 
FEDERAL AWARDEE PERFORMANCE AND INTEGRITY INFORMATION SYSTEM.
    Section 2313(c) of title 41, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(8) Whether the person is included on any of the following 
    lists maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the 
    Department of the Treasury:
            ``(A) The specially designated nationals and blocked 
        persons list (commonly known as the `SDN list').
            ``(B) The sectoral sanctions identification list.
            ``(C) The foreign sanctions evaders list.
            ``(D) The list of persons sanctioned under the Iran 
        Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) 
        that do not appear on the SDN list (commonly known as the `Non-
        SDN Iranian Sanctions Act list').
            ``(E) The list of foreign financial institutions subject to 
        part 561 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations.''.
SEC. 1271. REPORTS ON NUCLEAR PROGRAM OF IRAN.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report on the interim agreement relating to 
the nuclear program of Iran. Such report shall include--
        (1) verification of whether Iran is complying with such 
    agreement; and
        (2) an assessment of the overall state of the nuclear program 
    of Iran.
    (b) Additional Reports.--If the interim agreement described in 
subsection (a) is renewed or if a comprehensive and final agreement is 
entered into regarding the nuclear program of Iran, by not later than 
90 days after such renewal or final agreement being entered into, and 
every 180 days thereafter, the President shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report on such renewed or final 
agreement. Such report shall include the matters described in 
paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a).
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
    (d) Sunset.--This section shall terminate on the date that is 10 
years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1272. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON DEFENSE MODERNIZATION BY NATO 
COUNTRIES.
    (a) Findings.--Congress findings the following:
        (1) At the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) summit in 
    Wales in September 2014, NATO members made important commitments to 
    reverse the decline in their defense budgets and to aim to move 
    toward the NATO guideline to spend a minimum of two percent of each 
    member's Gross Domestic Product on defense within a decade.
        (2) At the Wales summit, NATO members declared that increased 
    investments in defense should be directed towards meeting the 
    capability priorities of the Alliance.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States should work with other NATO members as 
    they seek to modernize their defense capabilities to encourage such 
    members to procure defense systems, including air and missile 
    defense systems, that are interoperable with NATO defense systems 
    and help fill critical NATO shortfalls;
        (2) such United States efforts to facilitate the modernization 
    of defense capabilities are particularly important to help address 
    the security requirements of the newer members of NATO in Eastern 
    Europe; and
        (3) the United States stands ready to assist other NATO members 
    to modernize their defense capabilities and restructure their armed 
    forces consistent with the objectives set out at the NATO summit in 
    Wales in September 2014.
SEC. 1273. REPORT ON PROTECTION OF CULTURAL PROPERTY IN EVENT OF ARMED 
CONFLICT.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary 
of State, shall submit to the congressional defense committees and the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on efforts of 
the Department of Defense to protect cultural property abroad, 
including activities undertaken pursuant to the 1954 Hague Convention 
for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Event of Armed Conflict.
    (b) Elements of Report.--The report required under subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
        (1) A description of Department of Defense policies, 
    directives, and regulations for the protection of cultural property 
    abroad at risk of destruction due to armed conflict.
        (2) A description of actions the Armed Forces have taken to 
    protect cultural property abroad, including efforts to avoid damage 
    to cultural property during military construction activities and 
    efforts made to inform military personnel about the identification 
    and protection of cultural property as part of the law of war.
        (3) The status and number of specialist personnel in the Armed 
    Forces assigned to secure respect for cultural property abroad and 
    to cooperate with civilian authorities responsible for safeguarding 
    cultural property abroad, consistent with the requirements of the 
    1954 Hague Convention.
SEC. 1274. UNITED STATES STRATEGY AND PLANS FOR ENHANCING SECURITY AND 
STABILITY IN EUROPE.
    (a) Review.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a review of the 
force posture, readiness, and responsiveness of United States forces 
and the forces of other members of the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization (NATO) in the area of responsibility of the United States 
European Command, and of contingency plans for such United States 
forces, with the objective of ensuring that the posture, readiness, and 
responsiveness of such forces are appropriate to meet the obligations 
of collective self-defense under Article V of the North Atlantic 
Treaty. The review shall include an assessment of the capabilities and 
capacities needed by the Armed Forces of the United States to respond 
to unconventional or hybrid warfare tactics like those used by the 
Russian Federation in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine.
    (b) United States Strategy and Plans.--
        (1) Report on strategy and plans required.--Not later than 120 
    days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall, in coordination with the Secretary of State, submit 
    to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on a strategy 
    and plans for enhancing security and stability in Europe.
        (2) Elements.--The report required by this subsection shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A summary of the relevant findings of the review 
        conducted under subsection (a).
            (B) A description of any initiatives or recommendations of 
        the Secretary of Defense for enhancing the force posture, 
        readiness, and responsiveness of United States forces in the 
        area of responsibility of the United States European Command as 
        a result of the review.
            (C) A description of any initiatives of other members of 
        NATO for enhancing the force posture, readiness, and 
        responsiveness of their forces within the area of 
        responsibility of NATO.
            (D) A plan for reassuring Central European and Eastern 
        European members of NATO regarding the commitment of the United 
        States and other members of NATO to their obligations under the 
        North Atlantic Treaty, including collective defense under 
        Article V, including the following:
                (i) A description of measures to be undertaken by the 
            United States to reassure members of NATO regarding the 
            commitment of the United States to its obligations under 
            the North Atlantic Treaty.
                (ii) A description of measures undertaken or to be 
            undertaken by other members of NATO to provide assurances 
            of their commitment to meet their obligations under the 
            North Atlantic Treaty.
                (iii) A description of any planned measures to increase 
            the presence of the Armed Forces of the United States and 
            the forces of other members of NATO, including on a 
            rotational basis, on the territories of the Central 
            European and Eastern European members of NATO.
                (iv) A description of the measures undertaken by the 
            United States and other members of NATO to enhance the 
            capability of members of NATO to respond to tactics like 
            those used by the Russian Federation in Crimea and Eastern 
            Ukraine or to assist members of NATO in responding to such 
            tactics.
            (E) A plan for enhancing bilateral and multilateral 
        security cooperation with appropriate countries participating 
        in the NATO Partnership for Peace program using the authorities 
        for enhancing security cooperation specified in subsection (c), 
        which plan shall include the following:
                (i) An identification of the objectives and priorities 
            of such United States security assistance and cooperation 
            programs, on a bilateral and regional basis, and the 
            resources required to achieve such objectives and 
            priorities.
                (ii) A methodology for evaluating the effectiveness of 
            such United States security assistance and cooperation 
            programs, bilaterally and regionally, in making progress 
            toward identified objectives and priorities.
        (3) Form.--The report required by this subsection shall be 
    submitted in an unclassified form, but may include a classified 
    annex.
    (c) Authorities for Enhancing Security Cooperation.--The 
authorities for enhancing security cooperation specified in this 
subsection include the following:
        (1) Section 168 of title 10, United States Code, relating to 
    the Warsaw Initiative Fund.
        (2) Section 2282 of title 10, United States Code (as added by 
    section 1205 of this Act), relating to authority to build the 
    capacity of foreign military forces.
        (3) Section 1206 of this Act, relating to training of security 
    forces and associated ministries of foreign countries to promote 
    respect for the rule of law and human rights.
        (4) Section 1081 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 168 note), relating to the Ministry of 
    Defense Advisors program.
        (5) Section 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note), relating to the Global 
    Security Contingency Fund.
        (6) Any other authority available to the Secretary of Defense 
    or Secretary of State appropriate for the purpose of this section.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives.
SEC. 1275. REPORT ON MILITARY ASSISTANCE TO UKRAINE.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States should provide lethal and nonlethal military assistance to the 
Government of Ukraine to defend its territory and sovereignty from 
further aggressive actions designed to undermine regional peace and 
stability to the extent such assistance is defensive and non-
provocative in nature.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary of 
Defense shall conduct an assessment and submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report related to military assistance to Ukraine.
    (c) Elements.--At a minimum, the report required under subsection 
(b) should provide a detailed explanation of the following matters:
        (1) Military equipment, supplies, and defense services, 
    including type, quantity, and prioritization of such items, 
    requested by the Government of Ukraine.
        (2) Military equipment, supplies, and defense services, 
    including type, quantity, and actual or estimated delivery date, 
    that the United States Government has provided, is providing, and 
    plans to provide to the Government of Ukraine.
        (3) An assessment of what United States military assistance to 
    the Government of Ukraine, including type and quantity, would most 
    effectively improve the military readiness and capabilities of the 
    Ukrainian military, including a discussion of those defensive, 
    lethal capabilities that could be provided by the United States 
    that would enable the Government of Ukraine to better ensure the 
    territorial integrity of Ukraine.
        (4) An assessment of the need for, appropriateness of, and 
    force protection concerns of any United States military advisors 
    that may be made available to the armed forces of Ukraine.
        (5) Military training requested by the Government of Ukraine.
        (6) Military training the United States Government has 
    conducted with Ukraine in the previous six months.
        (7) Military training the United States Government plans to 
    conduct with the Government of Ukraine in the next year.
    (d) Form.--The report required under subsection (b) shall be 
unclassified in form, but may contain a classified annex.
    (e) Sunset.--The requirements in this section shall terminate on 
January 31, 2017.
SEC. 1276. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON EFFORTS TO REMOVE JOSEPH KONY FROM THE 
BATTLEFIELD AND END THE ATROCITIES OF THE LORD'S RESISTANCE ARMY.
    Consistent with the provisions of the Lord's Resistance Army 
Disarmament and Northern Uganda Recovery Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-
172), it is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the ongoing United States advise and assist operation in 
    support of regional governments in Central Africa and the African 
    Union to remove Joseph Kony and his top commanders from the 
    battlefield and end atrocities perpetuated by the Lord's Resistance 
    Army, also known as Operation Observant Compass, has made 
    significant progress in achieving its objectives;
        (2) the Department of Defense should continue its support of 
    Operation Observant Compass, particularly through the provision of 
    key enablers, such as mobility assets and targeted intelligence 
    collection and analytical support, to enable regional partners to 
    effectively conduct operations against Joseph Kony and the Lord's 
    Resistance Army;
        (3) Operation Observant Compass must be integrated into a 
    comprehensive strategy to support security and stability in the 
    region; and
        (4) the regional governments should recommit themselves to the 
    Regional Cooperation Initiative for the Elimination of the Lord's 
    Resistance Army authorized by the African Union.
SEC. 1277. EXTENSION OF ANNUAL REPORTS ON THE MILITARY POWER OF IRAN.
    Section 1245(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2544) is amended by 
striking ``December 31 2014'' and inserting ``December 31, 2016''.
SEC. 1278. REPORT AND STRATEGY REGARDING NORTH AFRICA, WEST AFRICA, AND 
THE SAHEL.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with other 
appropriate Federal officials, shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report that contains an assessment of the actions 
taken by the Department of Defense and other Federal agencies to 
identify, locate, and bring to justice those persons and organizations 
that planned, authorized, or committed the attacks against the United 
States facilities in Benghazi, Libya that occurred on September 11 and 
12, 2012, and the legal authorities available for such purposes.
    (b) Strategy.--
        (1) Timing and content.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a comprehensive strategy to 
    counter the growing threat posed by radical Islamist terrorist 
    groups in North Africa, West Africa, and the Sahel, which shall 
    include, among other things--
            (A) a description of the radical Islamist terrorist groups 
        active in the region, including an assessment of their origins, 
        strategic aims, tactical methods, funding sources, leadership, 
        and relationships with other terrorist groups or state actors;
            (B) a strategy to stem the movement of foreign fighters 
        from North Africa, West Africa, and the Sahel to other areas, 
        including Syria and Iraq;
            (C) a description of steps the United States is taking to 
        stabilize the political and security situation in North Africa, 
        West Africa, and the Sahel and support counterterrorism and 
        stability efforts in the region;
            (D) a description of the key military, diplomatic, 
        intelligence, and public diplomacy resources available to 
        address these growing regional terrorist threats; and
            (E) a strategy to maximize the coordination between, and 
        the effectiveness of, United States military, diplomatic, 
        intelligence, and public diplomacy resources to counter these 
        growing regional terrorist threats.
        (2) Definition of appropriate congressional committees.--In 
    this subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
    means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of 
        the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1279. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
    Nothing in this Act shall be construed as authorizing the use of 
force against Iran.
SEC. 1280. APPROVAL OF THE AMENDMENT TO THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE 
GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE 
UNITED KINGDOM OF GREAT BRITAIN AND NORTHERN IRELAND FOR COOPERATION ON 
THE USES OF ATOMIC ENERGY FOR MUTUAL DEFENSE PURPOSES.
    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the provisions for congressional 
consideration of a proposed agreement for cooperation in subsection d. 
of section 123 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2153), the 
amendments to the Agreement Between the Government of the United States 
of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland for Cooperation on the Uses of Atomic Energy for 
Mutual Defense Purposes, done at Washington, July 22, 2014, and 
transmitted to Congress on July 24, 2014, including all portions 
thereof (hereinafter in this section referred to as the ``Amendment''), 
may be brought into effect on or after the date of the enactment of 
this Act as if all the requirements in such section 123 for 
consideration of the Amendment had been satisfied, subject to 
subsection (b) of this section.
    (b) Applicability of Atomic Energy Act of 1954 and Other Provisions 
of Law.--Upon coming into effect, the Amendment shall be subject to the 
provisions of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.) 
and any other applicable United States law as if the Amendment had come 
into effect in accordance with the requirements of section 123 of the 
Atomic Energy Act of 1954.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

                            Subtitle A--Funds

Sec. 1301. Specification of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds.
Sec. 1302. Funding allocations.

Subtitle B--Consolidation and Modernization of Statutes Relating to the 
       Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program

Sec. 1311. Short title.
Sec. 1312. Definitions.

                       Part I--Program Authorities

Sec. 1321. Authority to carry out Department of Defense Cooperative 
          Threat Reduction Program.
Sec. 1322. Use of funds for certain emergent threats or opportunities.
Sec. 1323. Authority for urgent threat reduction activities under 
          Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program.
Sec. 1324. Use of funds for unspecified purposes or for increased 
          amounts.
Sec. 1325. Use of contributions to Department of Defense Cooperative 
          Threat Reduction Program.

                  Part II--Restrictions and Limitations

Sec. 1331. Prohibition on use of funds for specified purposes.
Sec. 1332. Requirement for on-site managers.
Sec. 1333. Limitation on use of funds until certain permits obtained.
Sec. 1334. Limitation on availability of funds for Cooperative Threat 
          Reduction activities with Russian Federation.

             Part III--Recurring Certifications and Reports

Sec. 1341. Annual certifications on use of facilities being constructed 
          for Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction 
          projects or activities.
Sec. 1342. Requirement to submit summary of amounts requested by project 
          category.
Sec. 1343. Reports on activities and assistance under Department of 
          Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program.
Sec. 1344. Metrics for Department of Defense Cooperative Threat 
          Reduction Program.

               Part IV--Repeals and Transition Provisions

Sec. 1351. Repeals.
Sec. 1352. Transition provisions.

                           Subtitle A--Funds

SEC. 1301. SPECIFICATION OF COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION FUNDS.
    (a) Fiscal Year 2015 Cooperative Threat Reduction Funds Defined.--
As used in this subtitle, the term ``fiscal year 2015 Cooperative 
Threat Reduction funds'' means the funds appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made available by 
the funding table in section 4301 for the Department of Defense 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program established under section 1321.
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Funds appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made available by 
the funding table in section 4301 for the Department of Defense 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program shall be available for obligation 
for fiscal years 2015, 2016, and 2017.
SEC. 1302. FUNDING ALLOCATIONS.
    Of the $365,108,000 authorized to be appropriated to the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2015 in section 301 and made available by 
the funding table in section 4301 for the Department of Defense 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program established under section 1321, 
the following amounts may be obligated for the purposes specified:
        (1) For strategic offensive arms elimination, $1,000,000.
        (2) For chemical weapons destruction, $15,720,000.
        (3) For global nuclear security, $20,703,000.
        (4) For cooperative biological engagement, $256,762,000.
        (5) For proliferation prevention, $40,704,000.
        (6) For threat reduction engagement, $2,375,000.
        (7) For activities designated as Other Assessments/
    Administrative Costs, $27,844,000.

Subtitle B--Consolidation and Modernization of Statutes Relating to the 
       Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program

SEC. 1311. SHORT TITLE.
    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Department of Defense 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Act''.
SEC. 1312. DEFINITIONS.
    In this subtitle:
        (1) The term ``congressional defense committees'' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United 
    States Code.
        (2) The term ``Cooperative Threat Reduction funds'' means funds 
    appropriated pursuant to an authorization of appropriations for the 
    Program, or otherwise made available to the Program.
        (3) The term ``Program'' means the Cooperative Threat Reduction 
    Program of the Department of Defense established under section 
    1321.

                      PART I--PROGRAM AUTHORITIES

SEC. 1321. AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COOPERATIVE 
THREAT REDUCTION PROGRAM.
    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a program, 
referred to as the ``Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction 
Program'', with respect to foreign countries to do the following:
        (1) Facilitate the elimination and the safe and secure 
    transportation and storage of chemical, biological, or other 
    weapons, weapons components, weapons-related materials, and 
    associated delivery vehicles.
        (2) Facilitate--
            (A) the safe and secure transportation and storage of 
        nuclear weapons, nuclear weapons-usable or high-threat 
        radiological materials, nuclear weapons components, and 
        associated delivery vehicles; and
            (B) the elimination of nuclear weapons, nuclear weapons 
        components, and nuclear weapons delivery vehicles.
        (3) Prevent the proliferation of nuclear and chemical weapons, 
    weapons components, and weapons-related materials, technology, and 
    expertise.
        (4) Prevent the proliferation of biological weapons, weapons 
    components, and weapons-related materials, technology, and 
    expertise, which may include activities that facilitate detection 
    and reporting of highly pathogenic diseases or other diseases that 
    are associated with or that could be used as an early warning 
    mechanism for disease outbreaks that could affect the Armed Forces 
    of the United States or allies of the United States, regardless of 
    whether such diseases are caused by biological weapons.
        (5) Prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction-
    related materials, including materials, equipment, and technology 
    that could be used for the design, development, production, or use 
    of nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons and the means of 
    delivery of such weapons.
        (6) Carry out military-to-military and defense contacts for 
    advancing the mission of the Program, subject to subsection (f).
    (b) Concurrence of Secretary of State.--The authority under 
subsection (a) to carry out the Program is subject to any concurrence 
of the Secretary of State or other appropriate agency head required 
under section 1322 or 1323 (unless such concurrence is otherwise 
exempted pursuant to section 1352 with respect to activities or 
determinations carried out or made before the date of the enactment of 
this Act).
    (c) Scope of Authority.--The authority to carry out the Program in 
subsection (a) includes authority to provide equipment, goods, and 
services, but does not include authority to provide funds directly for 
a project or activity carried out under the Program.
    (d) Type of Program.--The Program carried out under subsection (a) 
may involve assistance in planning and in resolving technical problems 
associated with weapons destruction and proliferation. The Program may 
also involve the funding of critical short-term requirements relating 
to weapons destruction.
    (e) Reimbursement of Other Agencies.--The Secretary of Defense may 
reimburse heads of other departments and agencies of the Federal 
Government under this section for costs of the participation of the 
respective departments and agencies in the Program.
    (f) Military-to-Military and Defense Contacts.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall ensure that the military-to-military and defense contacts 
carried out under subsection (a)(6)--
        (1) are focused and expanded to support specific relationship-
    building opportunities, which could lead to the development of the 
    Program in new geographic areas and achieve other benefits of the 
    Program;
        (2) are directly administered as part of the Program; and
        (3) include cooperation and coordination with--
            (A) the unified combatant commands; and
            (B) the Department of State.
    (g) Prior Notice to Congress of Obligation of Funds.--
        (1) Annual requirement.--Not less than 15 days before any 
    obligation of any Cooperative Threat Reduction funds, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report on that proposed obligation of such funds for that fiscal 
    year.
        (2) Matters included.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall 
    specify--
            (A) the activities and forms of assistance for which the 
        Secretary plans to obligate funds;
            (B) the amount of the proposed obligation; and
            (C) the projected involvement (if any) of any other 
        department or agency of the United States and of the private 
        sector of the United States in the activities and forms of 
        assistance for which the Secretary plans to obligate such 
        funds.
        (3) Exception for notifications previously provided.--Paragraph 
    (1) shall not apply with respect to a proposed obligation of 
    Cooperative Threat Reduction funds that is covered by a 
    notification previously submitted by the Secretary to the 
    congressional defense committees that includes the matters 
    described in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of paragraph (2).
SEC. 1322. USE OF FUNDS FOR CERTAIN EMERGENT THREATS OR OPPORTUNITIES.
    (a) Authority.--For purposes of the Program, the Secretary of 
Defense may obligate and expend Cooperative Threat Reduction funds for 
a fiscal year, and any Cooperative Threat Reduction funds for a prior 
fiscal year that remain available for obligation, for a proliferation 
threat reduction project or activity if the Secretary, with the 
concurrence of the Secretary of State, determines each of the 
following:
        (1) That such project or activity will--
            (A) assist the United States in the resolution of a 
        critical emerging proliferation threat; or
            (B) permit the United States to take advantage of 
        opportunities to achieve long-standing nonproliferation goals.
        (2) That such project or activity will be completed in a period 
    not exceeding five years.
        (3) That the Department of Defense is the entity of the Federal 
    Government that is most capable of carrying out such project or 
    activity.
    (b) Congressional Notification.--At the time at which the Secretary 
obligates funds under subsection (a) for a project or activity, the 
Secretary of Defense shall notify, in writing, the congressional 
defense committees and the Secretary of State shall notify, in writing, 
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate of the determinations 
made under such subsection with respect to such project or activity, 
together with--
        (1) a justification for such determinations; and
        (2) a description of the scope and duration of such project or 
    activity.
    (c) Non-Defense Agency Partner-Nation Contacts.--With respect to 
military-to-military and defense contacts carried out under subsection 
(a)(6) of section 1321, as further described in subsection (f) of such 
section, concurrence of the Secretary of State under subsection (a) is 
required only for participation in such contacts by personnel from non-
defense agencies of foreign countries.
    (d) Exception to Requirement for Certain Determinations.--The 
requirement for a determination under subsection (a) shall not apply to 
a state of the former Soviet Union.
SEC. 1323. AUTHORITY FOR URGENT THREAT REDUCTION ACTIVITIES UNDER 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION PROGRAM.
    (a) Limitation on Use of Funds for Urgent Threat Reduction 
Activities.--Subject to subsections (b) and (c), not more than 15 
percent of the total amount of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds for 
any fiscal year may be obligated or expended, notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, for covered activities.
    (b) Secretary of Defense Determination and Notice for Urgent Threat 
Reduction Activities in Governed Areas.--With respect to an area not 
covered by subsection (c), the Secretary of Defense may obligate or 
expend funds pursuant to subsection (a) for covered activities if--
        (1) the Secretary determines, in writing, that--
            (A) a threat arising in such area from the proliferation of 
        chemical, nuclear, or biological weapons or weapons-related 
        materials, technologies, or expertise must be addressed 
        urgently;
            (B) certain provisions of law would unnecessarily impede 
        the ability of the Secretary to carry out such covered 
        activities to address such threat; and
            (C) it is necessary to obligate or expend such funds to 
        carry out such covered activities;
        (2) the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Energy concur 
    with such determination; and
        (3) at the time at which the Secretary of Defense first 
    obligates such funds, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
    with the Secretary of State, submits to the congressional defense 
    committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
    Senate--
            (A) the determination under paragraph (1);
            (B) a description of the covered activities to be carried 
        out using such funds;
            (C) the expected time frame for such activities; and
            (D) the expected cost of such activities.
    (c) Presidential Determination and Notice for Urgent Threat 
Reduction Activities in Ungoverned Areas.--With respect to an 
ungoverned area or an area that is not controlled by an effective 
governmental authority, as determined by the Secretary of State, the 
President may obligate or expend funds pursuant to subsection (a) for 
covered activities if--
        (1) the President determines, in writing, that--
            (A) a threat arising in such an area from the proliferation 
        of chemical, nuclear, or biological weapons or weapons-related 
        materials, technologies, or expertise must be addressed 
        urgently; and
            (B) it is necessary to obligate or expend such funds to 
        carry out such covered activities to address such threat; and
        (2) at the time at which the President first obligates such 
    funds, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary 
    of State, submits to the congressional defense committees, the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and 
    the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate--
            (A) the determination under paragraph (1);
            (B) a description of the covered activities to be carried 
        out using such funds;
            (C) the expected time frame for such activities; and
            (D) the expected cost of such activities.
    (d) Covered Activity Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
activity'' means an activity under the Program to address a threat 
arising from the proliferation of chemical, nuclear, or biological 
weapons or weapons-related materials, technologies, or expertise.
SEC. 1324. USE OF FUNDS FOR UNSPECIFIED PURPOSES OR FOR INCREASED 
AMOUNTS.
    (a) Notice to Congress of Intent to Use Funds for Unspecified 
Purposes.--
        (1) Report.--For any fiscal year for which Cooperative Threat 
    Reduction funds are specifically authorized in an Act other than an 
    appropriations Act for specific purposes within the Program, the 
    Secretary of Defense may obligate or expend such funds, or other 
    funds otherwise made available for the Program for that fiscal 
    year, for purposes other than such specified purposes if--
            (A) the Secretary determines that such obligation or 
        expenditure is necessary in the national interests of the 
        United States;
            (B) the Secretary submits to the congressional defense 
        committees--
                (i) notification of the intent of the Secretary to make 
            such an obligation or expenditure of funds; and
                (ii) a complete discussion of the purpose and 
            justification for such obligation or expenditure, including 
            the amount of funds to be obligated or expended; and
            (C) a period of 15 days has elapsed following the date on 
        which the Secretary submits the notification and discussion 
        under subparagraph (B).
        (2) Construction with other laws.--Paragraph (1) may not be 
    construed to authorize the obligation or expenditure of Cooperative 
    Threat Reduction Program funds for a purpose for which the 
    obligation or expenditure of such funds is specifically prohibited 
    under section 1331 or any other provision of law.
    (b) Limited Authority to Vary Individual Amounts Provided for Any 
Fiscal Year for Specified Purposes.--For any fiscal year for which 
Cooperative Threat Reduction funds are specifically authorized in an 
Act other than an appropriations Act for specific purposes within the 
Program, the Secretary may obligate or expend such funds, or other 
funds otherwise made available for the Program for that fiscal year, in 
excess of the specific amount so authorized for that purpose if--
        (1) the Secretary determines that such obligation or 
    expenditure is necessary in the national interests of the United 
    States;
        (2) the Secretary submits to the congressional defense 
    committees--
            (A) notification of the intent of the Secretary to make 
        such an obligation or expenditure of funds in excess of such 
        authorized amount; and
            (B) a complete discussion of the justification for 
        exceeding such specified amounts, including the amount by which 
        the Secretary will exceed such specified amounts; and
        (3) a period of 15 days has elapsed following the date on which 
    the Secretary submits the notification and discussion under 
    paragraph (2).
SEC. 1325. USE OF CONTRIBUTIONS TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COOPERATIVE 
THREAT REDUCTION PROGRAM.
    (a) Authority to Enter Into Agreements.--
        (1) Authority.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary of 
    Defense may enter into one or more agreements with any person 
    (including a foreign government, international organization, 
    multinational entity, or any other entity) that the Secretary 
    considers appropriate under which the person contributes funds for 
    activities conducted under the Program.
        (2) Concurrence by secretary of state.--The Secretary may enter 
    into an agreement under paragraph (1) only with the concurrence of 
    the Secretary of State.
    (b) Retention and Use of Funds.--Notwithstanding section 3302 of 
title 31, United States Code, and subject to subsections (c) and (d), 
the Secretary of Defense may retain and obligate or expend funds 
contributed pursuant to subsection (a) for purposes of the Program. 
Funds so contributed shall be retained in a separate fund established 
in the Treasury for such purposes and shall be available to be 
obligated or expended without further appropriation.
    (c) Return of Funds Not Obligated or Expended Within Three Years.--
If the Secretary does not obligate or expend funds contributed pursuant 
to subsection (a) by the date that is three years after the date on 
which the contribution was made, the Secretary shall return the amount 
to the person who made the contribution.
    (d) Notice.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after receiving funds 
    contributed pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit 
    to the appropriate congressional committees a notice--
            (A) specifying the value of the contribution and the 
        purpose for which the contribution was made; and
            (B) identifying the person who made the contribution.
        (2) Limitation on use of amounts.--The Secretary may not 
    obligate funds contributed pursuant to subsection (a) until a 
    period of 15 days elapses following the date on which the Secretary 
    submits the notice under paragraph (1).
    (e) Annual Report.--Not later than the first Monday in February of 
each year, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report on amounts contributed pursuant to subsection (a) 
during the preceding fiscal year. Each such report shall include, for 
the fiscal year covered by the report, the following:
        (1) A statement of any funds contributed pursuant to subsection 
    (a), including, for each such contribution, the value of the 
    contribution and the identity of the person who made the 
    contribution.
        (2) A statement of any funds so contributed that were obligated 
    or expended by the Secretary, including, for each such 
    contribution, the purposes for which the funds were obligated or 
    expended.
        (3) A statement of any funds so contributed that were retained 
    but not obligated or expended, including, for each such 
    contribution, the purposes (if known) for which the Secretary 
    intends to obligate or expend the amount.
    (f) Implementation Plan.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees--
        (1) an implementation plan for the authority provided under 
    this section prior to obligating or expending any funds contributed 
    pursuant to subsection (a); and
        (2) any updates to such plan that the Secretary considers 
    appropriate.
    (g) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional defense committees.
        (2) The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
    Senate.

                 PART II--RESTRICTIONS AND LIMITATIONS

SEC. 1331. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR SPECIFIED PURPOSES.
    (a) In General.--Cooperative Threat Reduction funds may not be 
obligated or expended for any of the following purposes:
        (1) Conducting any peacekeeping exercise or other peacekeeping-
    related activity.
        (2) Provision of housing.
        (3) Provision of assistance to promote environmental 
    restoration.
        (4) Provision of assistance to promote job retraining.
        (5) Provision of assistance to promote defense conversion.
    (b) Limitation With Respect to Conventional Weapons.--Cooperative 
Threat Reduction funds may not be obligated or expended for the 
elimination of--
        (1) conventional weapons; or
        (2) delivery vehicles of conventional weapons, unless such 
    delivery vehicles could reasonably be used or adapted to be used 
    for the delivery of chemical, nuclear, or biological weapons.
SEC. 1332. REQUIREMENT FOR ON-SITE MANAGERS.
    (a) On-site Manager Requirement.--Before obligating any Cooperative 
Threat Reduction funds for a project described in subsection (b), the 
Secretary of Defense shall appoint one on-site manager for that 
project. The manager shall be appointed from among employees of the 
Federal Government.
    (b) Projects Covered.--Subsection (a) applies to a project--
        (1) to be located in a state of the former Soviet Union;
        (2) which involves dismantlement, destruction, or storage 
    facilities, or construction of a facility; and
        (3) with respect to which the total contribution by the 
    Department of Defense is expected to exceed $50,000,000.
    (c) Duties of On-site Manager.--The on-site manager appointed under 
subsection (a) shall--
        (1) develop, in cooperation with representatives from 
    governments of states participating in the project, a list of those 
    steps or activities critical to achieving the disarmament or 
    nonproliferation goals of the project;
        (2) establish a schedule for completing those steps or 
    activities;
        (3) meet with all participants to seek assurances that those 
    steps or activities are being completed on schedule; and
        (4) suspend the participation of the United States in a project 
    when a participant other than the United States fails to complete a 
    scheduled step or activity on time, unless the Secretary of Defense 
    directs the on-site manager to resume the participation of the 
    United States.
    (d) Authority to Manage More Than One Project.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), an employee of the 
    Federal Government may serve as on-site manager for more than one 
    project, including projects at different locations.
        (2) Limitation.--If such an employee serves as on-site manager 
    for more than one project in a fiscal year, the total cost of the 
    projects for that fiscal year may not exceed $150,000,000.
    (e) Steps or Activities.--Steps or activities referred to in 
subsection (c)(1) are those steps or activities that, if not completed, 
will prevent a project from achieving its disarmament or 
nonproliferation goals, including, at a minimum, the following:
        (1) Identification and acquisition of permits (as defined in 
    section 1333).
        (2) Verification that the items, substances, or capabilities to 
    be dismantled, secured, or otherwise modified are available for 
    dismantlement, securing, or modification.
        (3) Timely provision of financial, personnel, management, 
    transportation, and other resources.
    (f) Notification to Congress.--In any case in which the Secretary 
directs an on-site manager to resume the participation of the United 
States in a project under subsection (c)(4), the Secretary shall notify 
the congressional defense committees of such direction by not later 
than 30 days after the date of such direction.
SEC. 1333. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS UNTIL CERTAIN PERMITS OBTAINED.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to obtain all 
the permits required to complete each phase of construction of a 
project under the Program in a state of the former Soviet Union before 
obligating more than 40 percent of the total costs of that phase of the 
project.
    (b) Use of Funds for New Construction Projects.--Except as provided 
in subsection (c), with respect to a new construction project to be 
carried out by the Program, not more than 40 percent of the total costs 
of the project may be obligated from Cooperative Threat Reduction funds 
for any fiscal year until the Secretary--
        (1) determines the number and type of permits that may be 
    required for the lifetime of the project in the proposed location 
    or locations of the project; and
        (2) obtains from the state in which the project is to be 
    located any permits that may be required to begin construction.
    (c) Exception to Limitations on Use of Funds.--The limitation in 
subsection (b) on the obligation of funds for a construction project 
otherwise covered by such subsection shall not apply with respect to 
the obligation of funds for a particular project if the Secretary--
        (1) determines that it is necessary in the national interest to 
    obligate funds for such project; and
        (2) submits to the congressional defense committees a 
    notification of the intent to obligate funds for such project, 
    together with a complete discussion of the justification for doing 
    so.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section, with respect to a project under 
the Program:
        (1) The term ``new construction project'' means a construction 
    project for which no funds have been obligated or expended as of 
    November 24, 2003.
        (2) The term ``permit'' means any local or national permit for 
    development, general construction, environmental, land use, or 
    other purposes that is required for purposes of major construction.
SEC. 1334. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR COOPERATIVE THREAT 
REDUCTION ACTIVITIES WITH RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States should carry out activities under the 
    Program in the Russian Federation only if those activities are 
    consistent with and in support of the security interests of the 
    United States; and
        (2) in carrying out any such activities after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense should focus on 
    only those activities that--
            (A) are in support of the arms control obligations of the 
        United States and the Russian Federation; or
            (B) will reduce the threats posed by weapons of mass 
        destruction and related materials and technology to the United 
        States and countries in the Euro-Atlantic and Eurasian regions.
    (b) Completion of Cooperation Threat Reduction Activities in 
Russian Federation.--Cooperative Threat Reduction funds made available 
for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2015 may not be obligated or 
expended for activities in the Russian Federation unless such 
activities in Russia are specifically authorized by law.

             PART III--RECURRING CERTIFICATIONS AND REPORTS

SEC. 1341. ANNUAL CERTIFICATIONS ON USE OF FACILITIES BEING CONSTRUCTED 
FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION PROJECTS OR 
ACTIVITIES.
    Not later than the first Monday in February each year, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a certification for each facility of a project or activity 
of the Program for which construction occurred during the preceding 
fiscal year on matters as follows:
        (1) Whether or not such facility will be used for its intended 
    purpose by the government of the foreign country in which the 
    facility is constructed.
        (2) Whether or not the government of such country remains 
    committed to the use of such facility for such purpose.
        (3) Whether the actions needed to ensure security at the 
    facility, including the secure transportation of any materials, 
    substances, or weapons to, from, or within the facility, have been 
    taken.
SEC. 1342. REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT SUMMARY OF AMOUNTS REQUESTED BY 
PROJECT CATEGORY.
    (a) Summary Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees in the materials and manner specified 
in subsection (c)--
        (1) a descriptive summary, with respect to the appropriations 
    requested for the Program for the fiscal year after the fiscal year 
    in which the summary is submitted, of the amounts requested for 
    each project category under each program element; and
        (2) a descriptive summary, with respect to appropriations for 
    the Program for the fiscal year in which the list is submitted and 
    the previous fiscal year, of the amounts obligated or expended, or 
    planned to be obligated or expended, for each project category 
    under each program element.
    (b) Description of Purpose and Intent.--The descriptive summary 
required under subsection (a) shall include a narrative description of 
each program and project category under each program element that 
explains the purpose and intent of the funds requested.
    (c) Inclusion in Certain Materials Submitted to Congress.--The 
summary required to be submitted in a fiscal year under subsection (a) 
shall be set forth by project category, and by amounts specified in 
paragraphs (1) and (2) of such subsection in connection with such 
project category, in each of the following:
        (1) The annual report on activities and assistance under the 
    Program required in such fiscal year under section 1343.
        (2) The budget justification materials submitted to Congress in 
    support of the Department of Defense budget for the fiscal year 
    succeeding such fiscal year (as submitted with the budget of the 
    President under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code).
SEC. 1343. REPORTS ON ACTIVITIES AND ASSISTANCE UNDER DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION PROGRAM.
    (a) Annual Report.--In any year in which the President submits to 
Congress, under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the 
budget for a fiscal year that requests funds for the Department of 
Defense for activities or assistance under the Program, the Secretary 
of Defense, after consultation with the Secretary of State, shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate a report on the activities and 
assistance carried out under the Program.
    (b) Deadline.--Each report under subsection (a) shall be submitted 
not later than the first Monday in February of a year.
    (c) Matters Included.--Each report under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) An estimate of the total amount that will be required to be 
    expended by the United States during the fiscal year covered by the 
    budget described in subsection (a) in order to achieve the 
    objectives of the Program.
        (2) A five-year plan setting forth the amount of funds and 
    other resources proposed to be provided by the United States for 
    the Program during the period covered by the plan, including the 
    purpose for which such funds and resources will be used.
        (3) A description of the activities and assistance carried out 
    under the Program during the fiscal year preceding the submission 
    of the report, including--
            (A) the funds notified, obligated, and expended for such 
        activities and assistance and the purposes for which such funds 
        were notified, obligated, and expended for such fiscal year and 
        cumulatively for the Program;
            (B) a description of the participation, if any, of each 
        department and agency of the Federal Government in such 
        activities and assistance;
            (C) a description of such activities and assistance, 
        including the forms of assistance provided;
            (D) a description of the United States private sector 
        participation in the portion of such activities and assistance 
        that were supported by the obligation and expenditure of funds 
        for the Program; and
            (E) such other information as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate to fully inform Congress of the operation of 
        activities and assistance carried out under the Program, 
        including, with respect to proposed demilitarization or 
        conversion projects, information on the progress toward 
        demilitarization of facilities and the conversion of the 
        demilitarized facilities to civilian activities.
        (4) A description of the means (including program management, 
    audits, examinations, and other means) used by the United States 
    during the fiscal year preceding the submission of the report to 
    ensure that assistance provided under the Program is fully 
    accounted for, that such assistance is being used for its intended 
    purpose, and that such assistance is being used efficiently and 
    effectively, including--
            (A) if such assistance consisted of equipment, a 
        description of the current location of such equipment and the 
        current condition of such equipment;
            (B) if such assistance consisted of contracts or other 
        services, a description of the status of such contracts or 
        services and the methods used to ensure that such contracts and 
        services are being used for their intended purpose;
            (C) a determination whether the assistance described in 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) has been used for its intended 
        purpose and an assessment of whether the assistance being 
        provided is being used effectively and efficiently; and
            (D) a description of the efforts planned to be carried out 
        during the fiscal year beginning in the year of the report to 
        ensure that Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction 
        assistance provided during such fiscal year is fully accounted 
        for and is used for its intended purpose.
        (5) A description of the defense and military activities 
    carried out under section 1321(a)(6) during the fiscal year 
    preceding the submission of the report, including--
            (A) the amount of funds obligated or expended for such 
        activities;
            (B) the strategy, goals, and objectives for which such 
        funds were obligated and expended;
            (C) a description of the activities carried out, including 
        the forms of assistance provided, and the justification for 
        each form of assistance provided;
            (D) the success of each activity, including the goals and 
        objectives achieved for each activity;
            (E) a description of participation by private sector 
        entities in the United States in carrying out such activities, 
        and the participation of any other department or agency of the 
        Federal Government in such activities; and
            (F) any other information that the Secretary considers 
        relevant to provide a complete description of the operation and 
        success of activities carried out under the Program.
SEC. 1344. METRICS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE COOPERATIVE THREAT 
REDUCTION PROGRAM.
    The Secretary of Defense shall implement metrics to measure the 
impact and effectiveness of activities of the Program to address 
threats arising from the proliferation of chemical, nuclear, and 
biological weapons and weapons-related materials, technologies, and 
expertise.

               PART IV--REPEALS AND TRANSITION PROVISIONS

SEC. 1351. REPEALS.
    The following provisions of law are repealed:
        (1) Sections 212, 221, 222, and 231 of the Soviet Nuclear 
    Threat Reduction Act of 1991 (title II of Public Law 102-228; 22 
    U.S.C. 2551 note).
        (2) Sections 1412 and 1431 of the Former Soviet Union 
    Demilitarization Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 5902 and 5921).
        (3) Sections 1203, 1204, 1206, and 1208 of the Cooperative 
    Threat Reduction Act of 1993 (22 U.S.C. 5952, 5953, 5955, and 
    5957).
        (4) Section 1205 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 1996 (Public Law 104-106; 22 U.S.C. 5955 note).
        (5) Section 1501 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 1997 (Public Law 104-201; 50 U.S.C. 2362 note).
        (6) Section 1307 of the Strom Thurmond National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105-261; 22 
    U.S.C. 5952 note).
        (7) Section 1303 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2000 (Public Law 106-65; 22 U.S.C. 5952 note).
        (8)(A) Sections 1303 and 1304 of the Floyd D. Spence National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted into law 
    by Public Law 106-398; 22 U.S.C. 5952 note).
        (B) Section 1306 of such Act (as enacted into law by Public Law 
    106-398; 114 Stat. 1654A-340).
        (C) Section 1308 of such Act (as enacted into law by Public Law 
    106-398; 22 U.S.C. 5959).
        (9) Section 1304 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2002 (Public Law 107-107; 22 U.S.C. 5952 note).
        (10) Sections 1305 and 1306 of the Bob Stump National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 116 
    Stat. 2673; 22 U.S.C. 5952 note).
        (11) Sections 1303, 1305, 1307, and 1308 of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (22 U.S.C. 5960, 
    5961, 5962, and 5963).
        (12)(A) Section 1303 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 22 U.S.C. 5952 note).
        (B) Sections 1304 and 1305 of such Act (22 U.S.C. 5964 and 
    5965).
        (C) Section 1306 of such Act (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 
    2560; 22 U.S.C. 5952 note).
SEC. 1352. TRANSITION PROVISIONS.
    (a) Determinations Relating to Certain Proliferation Threat 
Reduction Projects and Activities.--Any determination made before the 
date of the enactment of this Act under section 1308(a) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (22 U.S.C. 5963(a)) 
shall be treated as a determination under section 1322(a).
    (b) Determinations Relating to Urgent Threat Reduction 
Activities.--Any determination made before the date of the enactment of 
this Act under section 1305(b) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (22 U.S.C. 5965(b)) shall be treated as a 
determination under section 1323(b).
    (c) Funds Available for Cooperative Threat Reduction Program.--
Funds made available for Cooperative Threat Reduction programs pursuant 
to the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public 
Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1632) or the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 672) that remain 
available for obligation as of the date of the enactment of this Act 
shall be available for the Program.

                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                      Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1405. Defense Health Program.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 1411. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of 
          Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
          Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health 
          Care Center, Illinois.
Sec. 1412. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
          Home.
Sec. 1413. Comptroller General of the United States report on Captain 
          James A. Lovell Federal Health Care Center, North Chicago, 
          Illinois.

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

SEC. 1401. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
SEC. 1402. CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, DEFENSE.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2015 
for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Chemical Agents and 
Munitions Destruction, Defense, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4501.
    (b) Use.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection 
(a) are authorized for--
        (1) the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions in 
    accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense 
    Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521); and
        (2) the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the United 
    States that is not covered by section 1412 of such Act.
SEC. 1403. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2015 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
SEC. 1404. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2015 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
SEC. 1405. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 
for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4501, for use of the Armed Forces and other activities and 
agencies of the Department of Defense in providing for the health of 
eligible beneficiaries.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

SEC. 1411. AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO JOINT DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY DEMONSTRATION 
FUND FOR CAPTAIN JAMES A. LOVELL FEDERAL HEALTH CARE CENTER, ILLINOIS.
    (a) Authority for Transfer of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated for section 1405 and available for the Defense Health 
Program for operation and maintenance, $146,857,000 may be transferred 
by the Secretary of Defense to the Joint Department of Defense-
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund 
established by subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
Stat. 2571). For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of such section 1704, 
any funds so transferred shall be treated as amounts authorized and 
appropriated specifically for the purpose of such a transfer.
    (b) Use of Transferred Funds.--For the purposes of subsection (b) 
of such section 1704, facility operations for which funds transferred 
under subsection (a) may be used are operations of the Captain James A. 
Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and 
supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility 
under an operational agreement covered by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).
SEC. 1412. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT 
HOME.
    There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 
from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the sum of $63,400,000 
for the operation of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.
SEC. 1413. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON CAPTAIN 
JAMES A. LOVELL FEDERAL HEALTH CARE CENTER, NORTH CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
submittal to Congress by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs of the evaluation report on the joint Department of 
Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs medical facility demonstration 
project known as the Captain James A. Lovell Federal Health Care 
Center, North Chicago, Illinois, that is required to be submitted in 
March 2016, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit 
to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on that 
demonstration project.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
an assessment by the Comptroller General of the following:
        (1) The evaluation measures, standards, and criteria used by 
    the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs to 
    measure the overall effectiveness and success of the medical 
    facility referred to in subsection (a).
        (2) The measurable effect, if any, on the missions of the 
    Department of the Navy and the Department of Veterans Affairs of 
    the provision of care in a joint facility such as the medical 
    facility.
        (3) Such other matters with respect to the medical facility 
    demonstration project described in subsection (a) as the 
    Comptroller General considers appropriate.
    (c) Availability of Certain Documents.--For purposes of the report 
required by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs shall make available to the Comptroller General any 
documents related to the medical facility demonstration project 
referred to in such subsection, including any evaluation plans, task 
summaries, in-process reviews, interim reports, and draft final report.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Veterans' Affairs of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives.

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 1501. Purpose.
Sec. 1502. Procurement.
Sec. 1503. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1504. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1505. Military personnel.
Sec. 1506. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1507. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1508. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1509. Defense Health program.
Sec. 1510. Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund.
Sec. 1511. European Reassurance Initiative.

                      Subtitle B--Financial Matters

Sec. 1521. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1522. Special transfer authority.

           Subtitle C--Limitations, Reports, and Other Matters

Sec. 1531. Afghanistan Infrastructure Fund.
Sec. 1532. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1533. Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund.
Sec. 1534. Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund.
Sec. 1535. European Reassurance Initiative.
Sec. 1536. Plan for transition of funding of United States Special 
          Operations Command from supplemental funding for overseas 
          contingency operations to recurring funding for future-years 
          defense programs.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 1501. PURPOSE.
    The purpose of this subtitle is to authorize appropriations for the 
Department of Defense for fiscal year 2015 to provide additional funds 
for overseas contingency operations being carried out by the Armed 
Forces.
SEC. 1502. PROCUREMENT.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 
for procurement accounts for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, 
the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding 
table in section 4102.
SEC. 1503. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 
4202.
SEC. 1504. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4302.
SEC. 1505. MILITARY PERSONNEL.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
military personnel, as specified in the funding table in section 4402.
SEC. 1506. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
SEC. 1507. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2015 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
SEC. 1508. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2015 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
SEC. 1509. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2015 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4502.
SEC. 1510. COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS FUND.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2015 
for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the Counterterrorism 
Partnerships Fund, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
    (b) Duration of Availability.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in subsection (a) shall remain 
available for obligation through September 30, 2016.
SEC. 1511. EUROPEAN REASSURANCE INITIATIVE.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2015 
for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the European Reassurance 
Initiative, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
    (b) Duration of Availability.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in subsection (a) shall remain 
available for obligation through September 30, 2016.

                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

SEC. 1521. TREATMENT AS ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATIONS.
    The amounts authorized to be appropriated by this title are in 
addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act.
SEC. 1522. SPECIAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
    (a) Authority to Transfer Authorizations.--
        (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense 
    that such action is necessary in the national interest, the 
    Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made available to 
    the Department of Defense in this title for fiscal year 2015 
    between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any 
    subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred 
    shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes as the 
    authorization to which transferred.
        (2) Limitations.--The total amount of authorizations that the 
    Secretary may transfer under the authority of this subsection may 
    not exceed $3,500,000,000.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--Transfers under this section shall be 
subject to the same terms and conditions as transfers under section 
1001.
    (c) Additional Authority.--The transfer authority provided by this 
section is in addition to the transfer authority provided under section 
1001.

          Subtitle C--Limitations, Reports, and Other Matters

SEC. 1531. AFGHANISTAN INFRASTRUCTURE FUND.
    No amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act may be 
available for, or used for purposes of, the Afghanistan Infrastructure 
Fund.
SEC. 1532. AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND.
    (a) Continuation of Existing Limitation on the Use of Amounts in 
Fund.--Funds available to the Department of Defense for the Afghanistan 
Security Forces Fund for fiscal year 2015 shall be subject to the 
conditions contained in subsections (b) through (g) of section 1513 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
110-181; 122 Stat. 428), as amended by section 1531(b) of the Ike 
Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public 
Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4424).
    (b) Equipment Disposition.--
        (1) Acceptance of certain equipment.--Subject to paragraph (2), 
    the Secretary of Defense may accept equipment that is procured 
    using amounts in the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund authorized 
    under this Act and is intended for transfer to the security forces 
    of Afghanistan, but is not accepted by such security forces.
        (2) Conditions on acceptance of equipment.--Before accepting 
    any equipment under the authority provided by paragraph (1)--
            (A) the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees the report required by 
        subsection (c); and
            (B) the Commander of United States forces in Afghanistan 
        shall make a determination that the equipment was procured for 
        the purpose of meeting requirements of the security forces of 
        Afghanistan, as agreed to by both the Government of Afghanistan 
        and the United States, but is no longer required by such 
        security forces or was damaged before transfer to such security 
        forces.
        (3) Elements of determination.--In making a determination under 
    paragraph (2)(B) regarding equipment, the Commander of United 
    States forces in Afghanistan shall consider alternatives to 
    Secretary of Defense acceptance of the equipment. An explanation of 
    each determination, including the basis for the determination and 
    the alternatives considered, shall be included in the relevant 
    quarterly report required under paragraph (5).
        (4) Treatment as department of defense stocks.--Equipment 
    accepted under the authority provided by paragraph (1) may be 
    treated as stocks of the Department of Defense upon notification to 
    the congressional defense committees of such treatment.
        (5) Quarterly reports on equipment disposition.--Not later than 
    90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and every 90-
    day period thereafter during which the authority provided by 
    paragraph (1) is exercised, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
    to the congressional defense committees a report describing the 
    equipment accepted under this subsection or section 1531(d) of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 
    113-66; 127 Stat. 938; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) during the period 
    covered by the report. Each report shall include a list of all 
    equipment that was accepted during the period covered by the report 
    and treated as stocks of the Department and copies of the 
    determinations made under paragraph (2)(B), as required by 
    paragraph (3).
    (c) Report on Afghanistan Equipment Procurement Process.--Not later 
than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Commander of United 
States forces in Afghanistan, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report describing in detail--
        (1) the methods used to identify equipment requirements for the 
    security forces of Afghanistan and to incorporate such requirements 
    into the procurement process for such security forces; and
        (2) the steps being taken to improve coordination between 
    United States forces in Afghanistan and the security forces of 
    Afghanistan within such procurement process.
    (d) Conforming Amendments.--Section 1531(d) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 
938; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note)--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``prior Acts'' and inserting 
    ``this Act or prior Acts''; and
        (2) by striking paragraph (3).
SEC. 1533. JOINT IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICE DEFEAT FUND.
    (a) Use and Transfer of Funds.--Subsections (b) and (c) of section 
1514 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2439), as in effect before the 
amendments made by section 1503 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 
4649), but as amended by subsection (b) of this section, shall apply to 
the funds made available to the Department of Defense for the Joint 
Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund for fiscal year 2015.
    (b) Plan for Consolidation and Alignment of Rapid Acquisition 
Organizations.--
        (1) Plan required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
    the congressional defense committees a plan to consolidate and 
    align all of the rapid acquisition or quick reaction capability 
    organizations, including, at a minimum, the following--
            (A) The Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat 
        Organization (JIEDDO).
            (B) The Joint Rapid Acquisition Cell (JRAC).
            (C) The Warfighter Senior Integration Group (SIG).
            (D) The Intelligence, Surveillance, and Reconnaissance 
        (ISR) Task Force.
            (E) The Afghanistan Resources Oversight Council (AROC).
            (F) Any other Department of Defense-wide or military 
        department specific organizations, and associated capabilities 
        and funding, carrying out comparable joint urgent operational 
        needs (JUONs) or joint emergent operational needs (JEONs) 
        efforts.
        (2) Plan elements.--The plan required by this subsection shall 
    include the following elements:
            (A) A review, and if necessary, recommended modifications 
        to the current arrangements for oversight of the Joint 
        Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Organization within the 
        Office of the Secretary of Defense.
            (B) A review and, if necessary, recommended modifications 
        to the current policies and regulations governing the 
        satisfaction of joint urgent operational needs (JUONs) and 
        joint emergent operational needs (JEONs).
            (C) A review, and if necessary, recommended modifications 
        to authorities provided to enduring or successor rapid 
        acquisition or quick reaction capability organizations.
        (3) Plan implementation.--The plan required by this subsection 
    shall include a timeline for--
            (A) implementation of the consolidation and alignment 
        decisions contained in the plan; and
            (B) consolidation of funding sources, including the 
        consolidation of the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat 
        Fund with the Joint Urgent Operational Needs Fund.
    (c) Extension of Interdiction of Improvised Explosive Device 
Precursor Chemicals Authority.--Section 1532(c)(4) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
Stat. 2057), as amended by section 1532(c) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 
939), is amended by striking ``December 31, 2014'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2015''.
    (d) Prohibition on Use of Funds.--
        (1) Prohibition; exceptions.--None of the funds authorized to 
    be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal 
    year 2015 for the Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat 
    Organization may be used for the purposes of the Joint Improvised 
    Explosive Device Defeat Organization assigning personnel or 
    contractors on a permanent or temporary basis, or as a detail, to 
    the combatant commands or associated military components unless 
    such personnel or contractors are supporting--
            (A) Operation Enduring Freedom and any successor operation 
        to that operation,
            (B) Operation Inherent Resolve and any successor operation 
        to that operation, or
            (C) another operation that, as determined by the Secretary 
        of Defense, requires the direct support of the Joint Improvised 
        Explosive Device Defeat Organization.
        (2) Congressional notification.--If the Secretary of Defense 
    makes a determination pursuant to paragraph (1)(C) that an 
    operation requires the direct support of the Joint Improvised 
    Explosive Device Defeat Organization, the Secretary shall submit to 
    the congressional defense committees a notice of the determination 
    and the reasons for the determination.
SEC. 1534. COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS FUND.
    (a) Availability of Funds.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated 
for fiscal year 2015 by this title for the Counterterrorism 
Partnerships Fund shall be available for the following purposes:
        (1) To provide support and assistance to foreign security 
    forces or other groups or individuals to conduct, support, or 
    facilitate counterterrorism and crisis response activities under 
    authority provided the Department of Defense by any other provision 
    of law (in this section referred to as an ``underlying Department 
    of Defense authority'').
        (2) To improve the capacity of the United States Armed Forces 
    to provide enabling support to counterterrorism and crisis response 
    activities undertaken by foreign security forces or other groups or 
    individuals under any underlying Department of Defense authority.
    (b) Geographic Limitation.--
        (1) In general.--Activities using amounts available pursuant to 
    subsection (a) may be conducted only in the area of responsibility 
    of the United States Central Command or the United States Africa 
    Command, but may not include activities for the provision of 
    assistance or other support for the Government of Iraq.
        (2) Additional areas of responsibility.--Activities using 
    amounts available pursuant to subsection (a) may be conducted in an 
    area of responsibility of a geographic combatant command not 
    specified in paragraph (1) if the Secretary of Defense determines 
    that--
            (A) such activities are consistent with the purposes 
        specified in subsection (a);
            (B) the absence of such activities would result in an 
        increased risk to the national security of the United States; 
        and
            (C) such activities could not be conducted using funds 
        already available to the Department of Defense (other than 
        funds transferred from the Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund).
        (3) Notice of determination of additional areas.--The Secretary 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a notification 
    of any determination made pursuant to paragraph (2) not later than 
    15 days before transferring amounts from the Counterterrorism 
    Partnerships Fund for activities in the area of responsibility 
    covered by such determination.
    (c) Contract Authority.--Activities using amounts available 
pursuant to subsection (a) may be conducted by contract, including 
contractor-operated capabilities, if the Secretary of Defense typically 
acquires services or equipment by contract in conducting a similar 
activity for the Department of Defense.
    (d) Transfer Requirement and Authorities.--
        (1) Use of funds only pursuant to transfer.--Amounts in the 
    Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund may be used for the purposes 
    specified in subsection (a) only pursuant to transfers authorized 
    by this subsection.
        (2) Transfers authorized.--Amounts in the Counterterrorism 
    Partnerships Fund may be transferred from the Fund to any accounts 
    of the Department of Defense for operation and maintenance for the 
    purposes specified in subsection (a).
        (3) Reprogramming requirement.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
    submit a reprogramming or transfer request from amounts authorized 
    to be appropriated by section 1510 to the congressional defense 
    committees to carry out activities supported under this section. 
    Each such request shall set forth the following:
            (A) A detailed description of the activities to be 
        supported by the reprogramming or transfer, including the 
        request of the commander of the combatant command concerned for 
        support, urgent operational need, or emergent operational need.
            (B) The amount planned to be obligated or expended on such 
        activities, the recipient of such amount, and the timeline for 
        such obligation or expenditure.
            (C) The underlying Department of Defense authorities that 
        authorize such activities.
        (4) Effect on authorization amounts.--The transfer of an amount 
    to an account under the authority in paragraph (2) shall be deemed 
    to increase the amount authorized for such account by an amount 
    equal to the amount transferred.
        (5) Transfers back to the fund.--Upon a determination that all 
    or part of the funds transferred from the Counterterrorism 
    Partnerships Fund under paragraph (2) are not necessary for the 
    purpose provided, such funds may be transferred back to the Fund.
        (6) Construction with other transfer authority.--The transfer 
    authority provided by paragraph (2) is in addition to any other 
    transfer authority available to the Department of Defense.
    (e) Construction With Other Limitations.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), nothing 
    in this section may be construed to terminate, alter, or override 
    any requirement or limitation applicable to activities funded with 
    amounts in the Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund under the 
    underlying Department of Defense authority that authorizes such 
    activities.
        (2) Inapplicability of limitations on availability of funds.--A 
    limitation on the amount that may be used for activities in a 
    fiscal year under the underlying Department of Defense authority 
    that authorizes such activities shall not apply to amounts made 
    available for such activities in such fiscal year pursuant to this 
    section.
    (f) Plan.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a plan for the intended management and use of the 
Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund. The plan shall include the 
following:
        (1) An identification of the underlying Department of Defense 
    authorities that the Secretary has identified as available for use 
    pursuant to subsection (a).
        (2) A detailed description, to the maximum extent practicable, 
    of the requirements, activities, and planned allocation of amounts 
    available for use pursuant to subsection (a).
        (3) An identification of the senior civilian employee of the 
    Department of Defense designated by the Secretary to serve as 
    manager of the Fund.
    (g) Semi-Annual Reports.--Not later than 60 days after the end of 
the first half of fiscal years 2015, 2016, and 2017, and the second 
half of fiscal years 2015 and 2016, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth, 
for the preceding fiscal half-year, the following:
        (1) A description of the underlying Department of Defense 
    authorities that authorized activities supported by the 
    Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund.
        (2) A description of the activities supported by the Fund.
        (3) A description of any obligations and expenditures of 
    amounts transferred from the Fund, including recipients of amounts, 
    set forth by country (where applicable).
        (4) A description of any determinations made as described in 
    subsection (d)(5), and a description of any transfers back to the 
    Fund pursuant to that subsection.
        (5) A description of any revisions to the plan submitted 
    pursuant to subsection (f).
    (h) Duration of Authority.--No amounts may be transferred from the 
Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund after December 31, 2016.
SEC. 1535. EUROPEAN REASSURANCE INITIATIVE.
    (a) Total Amount and Authorized Purposes of ERI.--The 
$1,000,000,000 authorized to be appropriated in sections 1502, 1504, 
1505, 1511, and 2904 for fiscal year 2015 for the European Reassurance 
Initiative, as specified in the funding tables in sections 4102, 4302, 
4402, 4502, and 4602, may be used by the Secretary of Defense solely 
for the following purposes:
        (1) Activities to increase the presence of the United States 
    Armed Forces in Europe.
        (2) Bilateral and multilateral military exercises and training 
    with allies and partner nations in Europe.
        (3) Activities to improve infrastructure in Europe to enhance 
    the responsiveness of the United States Armed Forces.
        (4) Activities to enhance the prepositioning in Europe of 
    equipment of the United States Armed Forces.
        (5) Activities to build the defense and security capacity of 
    allies and partner nations in Europe.
    (b) Activities to Build Defense and Security Capacity of Allies and 
Partner Nations.--Of the funds made available for the European 
Reassurance Initiative that will be used for the purpose specified in 
subsection (a)(5)--
        (1) not less than $75,000,000 shall be available to be used for 
    programs, activities, and assistance to support the Government of 
    Ukraine;
        (2) not less than $30,000,000 shall be available to be used for 
    programs and activities to build the capacity of European allies 
    and partner nations; and
        (3) the Secretary of Defense may transfer the funds to support 
    activities conducted under the authorities of the Department of 
    Defense specified in section 1274(c) of this Act.
    (c) Transfer Requirements Related to Certain Funds.--
        (1) Use of funds only pursuant to transfer.--In the case of the 
    funds authorized to be appropriated in section 1511 for the 
    European Reassurance Initiative Fund, as specified in the funding 
    tables in section 4502, the funds may be used for the purposes 
    specified in subsection (a) only pursuant to a transfer of the 
    funds to either or both of the following accounts of the Department 
    of Defense:
            (A) Military personnel accounts.
            (B) Operation and maintenance accounts.
        (2) Effect on authorization amounts.--During fiscal years 2015 
    and 2016, the transfer of an amount made available for the European 
    Reassurance Initiative to an account under the authority provided 
    by paragraph (1) or subsection (b)(3) shall be deemed to increase 
    the amount authorized for such account by an amount equal to the 
    amount transferred.
        (3) Construction with other transfer authority.--The transfer 
    authority provided by paragraph (1) and subsection (b)(3) is in 
    addition to any other transfer authority available to the 
    Department of Defense.
    (d) Notification Requirements.--Not later than 15 days before that 
date on which a transfer of funds under subsection (b)(3) or (c)(1) 
takes effect, the Secretary of Defense shall notify the congressional 
defense committees in writing of the planned transfer. Each notice of a 
transfer of funds shall include the following:
        (1) A detailed description of the project or activity to be 
    supported by the transfer of funds, including any request of the 
    Commander of the United States European Command for support, urgent 
    operational need, or emergent operational need.
        (2) The amount planned to be transferred and expended on such 
    project or activity.
        (3) A timeline for expenditure of the transferred funds.
    (e) Duration of Transfer Authority.--The transfer authority 
provided by subsections (b)(3) and (c)(1) expires September 30, 2016.
SEC. 1536. PLAN FOR TRANSITION OF FUNDING OF UNITED STATES SPECIAL 
OPERATIONS COMMAND FROM SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY 
OPERATIONS TO RECURRING FUNDING FOR FUTURE-YEARS DEFENSE PROGRAMS.
    At the same time the budget of the President for fiscal year 2016 
is submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United 
States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a plan to maintain critical and enduring special 
operations capabilities for the United States Special Operations 
Command by fully transitioning funding for the United States Special 
Operations Command from funds available for overseas contingency 
operations to funds available for the Department of Defense on a 
recurring basis for purposes of future-years defense programs.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

Sec. 1601. Department of Defense Space Security and Defense Program.
Sec. 1602. Evolved expendable launch vehicle notification.
Sec. 1603. Satellite communications responsibilities of Executive Agent 
          for Space.
Sec. 1604. Rocket propulsion system development program.
Sec. 1605. Pilot program for acquisition of commercial satellite 
          communication services.
Sec. 1606. Update of National Security Space Strategy to include space 
          control and space superiority strategy.
Sec. 1607. Allocation of funds for the Space Security and Defense 
          Program; report on space control.
Sec. 1608. Prohibition on contracting with Russian suppliers of rocket 
          engines for the evolved expendable launch vehicle program.
Sec. 1609. Assessment of evolved expendable launch vehicle program.
Sec. 1610. Competitive procedures required to launch payload for mission 
          number five of the Operationally Responsive Space Program.
Sec. 1611. Availability of additional rocket cores pursuant to 
          competitive procedures.
Sec. 1612. Limitations on availability of funds for weather satellite 
          follow-on system and Defense Meteorological Satellite program.
Sec. 1613. Limitation on availability of funds for space-based infrared 
          systems space data exploitation.
Sec. 1614. Limitations on availability of funds for hosted payload and 
          wide field of view testbed of the space-based infrared 
          systems.
Sec. 1615. Limitations on availability of funds for protected tactical 
          demonstration and protected military satellite communications 
          testbed of the advanced extremely high frequency program.
Sec. 1616. Study of space situational awareness architecture.
Sec. 1617. Briefing on range support for launches in support of national 
          security.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

Sec. 1621. Tactical Exploitation of National Capabilities Executive 
          Agent.
Sec. 1622. One-year extension of report on imagery intelligence and 
          geospatial information support provided to regional 
          organizations and security alliances.
Sec. 1623. Extension of Secretary of Defense authority to engage in 
          commercial activities as security for intelligence collection 
          activities.
Sec. 1624. Extension of authority relating to jurisdiction over 
          Department of Defense facilities for intelligence collection 
          or special operations activities abroad.
Sec. 1625. Assessment and limitation on availability of funds for 
          intelligence activities and programs of United States Special 
          Operations Command and special operations forces.
Sec. 1626. Annual briefing on the intelligence, surveillance, and 
          reconnaissance requirements of the combatant commands.
Sec. 1627. Prohibition on National Intelligence Program consolidation.
Sec. 1628. Personnel security and insider threat.
Sec. 1629. Migration of Distributed Common Ground System of Department 
          of the Army to an open system architecture.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

Sec. 1631. Budgeting and accounting for cyber mission forces.
Sec. 1632. Reporting on cyber incidents with respect to networks and 
          information systems of operationally critical contractors.
Sec. 1633. Executive agents for cyber test and training ranges.
Sec. 1634. Cyberspace mapping.
Sec. 1635. Review of cross domain solution policy and requirement for 
          cross domain solution strategy.
Sec. 1636. Requirement for strategy to develop and deploy decryption 
          service for the Joint Information Environment.
Sec. 1637. Actions to address economic or industrial espionage in 
          cyberspace.
Sec. 1638. Sense of Congress regarding role of reserve components in 
          defense of United States against cyber attacks.
Sec. 1639. Sense of Congress on the future of the Internet and the .MIL 
          top-level domain.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1641. Preparation of annual budget request regarding nuclear 
          weapons.
Sec. 1642. Improvement to biennial assessment on delivery platforms for 
          nuclear weapons and the nuclear command and control system.
Sec. 1643. Congressional Budget Office review of cost estimates for 
          nuclear weapons.
Sec. 1644. Retention of missile silos.
Sec. 1645. Procurement authority for certain parts of intercontinental 
          ballistic missile fuzes.
Sec. 1646. Assessment of nuclear weapon secondary requirement.
Sec. 1647. Certification on nuclear force structure.
Sec. 1648. Advance notice and reports on B61 life extension program.
Sec. 1649. Notification and report concerning removal or consolidation 
          of dual-capable aircraft from Europe.
Sec. 1650. Reports on installation of nuclear command, control, and 
          communications systems at headquarters of United States 
          Strategic Command.
Sec. 1651. Report on plans for response of Department of Defense to INF 
          Treaty violation.
Sec. 1652. Statement of policy on the nuclear triad.
Sec. 1653. Sense of Congress on deterrence and defense posture of the 
          North Atlantic Treaty Organization.

                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

Sec. 1661. Availability of funds for Iron Dome short-range rocket 
          defense system.
Sec. 1662. Testing and assessment of missile defense systems prior to 
          production and deployment.
Sec. 1663. Acquisition plan for re-designed exo-atmospheric kill 
          vehicle.
Sec. 1664. Study on testing program of ground-based midcourse missile 
          defense system.
Sec. 1665. Sense of Congress and report on homeland ballistic missile 
          defense.
Sec. 1666. Sense of Congress and report on regional ballistic missile 
          defense.

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

SEC. 1601. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SPACE SECURITY AND DEFENSE PROGRAM.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) critical United States national security space systems are 
    facing a serious growing foreign threat;
        (2) the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation 
    are both developing capabilities to disrupt the use of space by the 
    United States in a conflict, as recently outlined by the Director 
    of National Intelligence in testimony before Congress; and
        (3) a fully-developed multi-faceted space security and defense 
    program is needed to deter and defeat any adversaries' acts of 
    space aggression.
    (b) Report on Ability of the United States to Deter and Defeat 
Adversary Space Aggression.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report containing an assessment of 
the ability of the Department of Defense to deter and defeat any act of 
space aggression by an adversary.
    (c) Study on Alternative Defense and Deterrence Strategies in 
Response to Foreign Counterspace Capabilities.--
        (1) Study required.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through 
    the Office of Net Assessment, shall conduct a study of potential 
    alternative defense and deterrent strategies in response to the 
    existing and projected counterspace capabilities of China and 
    Russia. Such study shall include an assessment of the congruence of 
    such strategies with the current United States defense strategy and 
    defense programs of record, and the associated implications of 
    pursuing such strategies.
        (2) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees the results of the study required 
    under paragraph (1).
SEC. 1602. EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLE NOTIFICATION.
    (a) Notification.--At the same time as the President submits the 
budget required under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, for 
fiscal years 2016 and 2017, the Secretary of the Air Force shall 
provide to the appropriate congressional committees notice of each 
change to the evolved expendable launch vehicle acquisition plan and 
schedule from the plan and schedule included in the budget submitted by 
the President under such section 1105 for fiscal year 2015. Such 
notification shall include--
        (1) an identification of the change;
        (2) a national security rationale for the change;
        (3) the impact of the change on the evolved expendable launch 
    vehicle block buy contract;
        (4) the impact of the change on the opportunities for 
    competition for certified evolved expendable launch vehicle launch 
    providers; and
        (5) the costs or savings of the change.
    (b) Inapplicability of Notification Requirement if No Changes.--No 
notification under subsection (a) is required if at the time such 
notification would be required no change described in subsection (a) 
has occurred.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees.--In this section, the 
term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) with respect to a change to the evolved expendable launch 
    vehicle acquisition schedule for an intelligence-related launch, 
    the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
    Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 1603. SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS RESPONSIBILITIES OF EXECUTIVE AGENT 
FOR SPACE.
    The Secretary of Defense shall, not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, revise Department of Defense 
directives and guidance to require the Department of Defense Executive 
Agent for Space to ensure that in developing space strategies, 
architectures, and programs for satellite communications, the Executive 
Agent shall--
        (1) conduct strategic planning to ensure the Department of 
    Defense is effectively and efficiently meeting the satellite 
    communications requirements of the military departments and 
    commanders of the combatant commands;
        (2) coordinate with the secretaries of the military 
    departments, the commanders of the combatant commands, and the 
    heads of Defense Agencies to eliminate duplication of effort and to 
    ensure that resources are used to achieve the maximum effort in 
    related satellite communication science and technology; research, 
    development, test and evaluation; production; and operations and 
    sustainment;
        (3) coordinate with the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics and the Chief Information 
    Officer of the Department to ensure that effective and efficient 
    acquisition approaches are being used to acquire military and 
    commercial satellite communications for the Department, including 
    space, ground, and user terminal integration; and
        (4) coordinate with the chairman of the Joint Requirements 
    Oversight Council to develop a process to identify the current and 
    projected satellite communications requirements of the Department.
SEC. 1604. ROCKET PROPULSION SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
    (a) Development.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a next-
    generation rocket propulsion system that enables the effective, 
    efficient, and expedient transition from the use of non-allied 
    space launch engines to a domestic alternative for national 
    security space launches.
        (2) Requirements.--The system developed under paragraph (1) 
    shall--
            (A) be made in the United States;
            (B) meet the requirements of the national security space 
        community;
            (C) be developed by not later than 2019;
            (D) be developed using full and open competition; and
            (E) be available for purchase by all space launch providers 
        of the United States.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report that includes--
        (1) a plan to carry out the development of the rocket 
    propulsion system under subsection (a), including an analysis of 
    the benefits of using public-private partnerships;
        (2) the requirements of the program to develop such system; and
        (3) the estimated cost of such system.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional defense committees.
        (2) The Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 1605. PILOT PROGRAM FOR ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL SATELLITE 
COMMUNICATION SERVICES.
    (a) Pilot Program.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may develop and carry 
    out a pilot program to determine the feasibility and advisability 
    of expanding the use of working capital funds by the Secretary to 
    effectively and efficiently acquire commercial satellite 
    communications services to meet the requirements of the military 
    departments, Defense Agencies, and combatant commanders.
        (2) Funding.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated for 
    any of fiscal years 2015 through 2020 for the Department of Defense 
    for the acquisition of satellite communications, not more than 
    $50,000,000 may be obligated or expended for such pilot program 
    during such a fiscal year.
        (3) Certain authorities.--In carrying out the pilot program 
    under paragraph (1), the Secretary may not use the authorities 
    provided in sections 2208(k) and 2210(b) of title 10, United States 
    Code.
    (b) Goals.--In developing and carrying out the pilot program under 
subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall ensure that the pilot program--
        (1) provides a cost-effective and strategic method to acquire 
    commercial satellite communications services;
        (2) incentivizes private-sector participation and investment in 
    technologies to meet future requirements of the Department of 
    Defense with respect to commercial satellite communications 
    services;
        (3) takes into account the potential for a surge or other 
    change in the demand of the Department for commercial satellite 
    communications services in response to global or regional events; 
    and
        (4) ensures the ability of the Secretary to control and account 
    for the cost of programs and work performed under the pilot 
    program.
    (c) Duration.--The pilot program under subsection (a)(1) shall 
terminate on October 1, 2020.
    (d) Reports.--
        (1) Initial report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report that includes--
            (A) a plan and schedule to carry out the pilot program 
        under subsection (a)(1); or
            (B) if the Secretary finds that carrying out the pilot 
        program authorized under subsection (a)(1) is not an 
        appropriate method to effectively and efficiently acquire 
        commercial satellite communications services, a description of 
        how the Secretary will achieve the goals described in 
        subsection (b) without carrying out such pilot program.
        (2) Final report.--Not later than December 1, 2020, the 
    Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report on the pilot program under subsection (a)(1). The report 
    shall include--
            (A) an assessment of expanding the use of working capital 
        funds to effectively and efficiently acquire commercial 
        satellite communications services to meet the requirements of 
        the military departments, Defense Agencies, and combatant 
        commanders; and
            (B) a description of--
                (i) any contract entered into under the pilot program, 
            the funding used under such contract, and the efficiencies 
            realized under such contract;
                (ii) the advantages and challenges of using working 
            capital funds as described in subparagraph (A);
                (iii) any additional authorities the Secretary 
            determines necessary to acquire commercial satellite 
            communications services as described in subsection (a)(1); 
            and
                (iv) any recommendations of the Secretary with respect 
            to improving or extending the pilot program.
SEC. 1606. UPDATE OF NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE STRATEGY TO INCLUDE SPACE 
CONTROL AND SPACE SUPERIORITY STRATEGY.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Director of National Intelligence, update the National 
Security Space Strategy to include a strategy relating to space control 
and space superiority for the protection of national security space 
assets.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy relating to space control and space 
superiority required by subsection (a) shall address the following:
        (1) Threats to national security space assets.
        (2) Protection of national security space assets.
        (3) The role of offensive space operations.
        (4) Countering offensive space operations.
        (5) Operations to implement the strategy.
        (6) Projected resources required over the period covered by the 
    current future-years defense program under section 221 of title 10, 
    United States Code.
        (7) The development of an effective deterrence posture.
    (c) Consistency With Space Protection Strategy.--The Secretary 
shall, in consultation with the Director, ensure that the strategy 
relating to space control and space superiority required by subsection 
(a) is consistent with the Space Protection Strategy developed under 
section 911 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2008 (10 U.S.C. 2271 note).
    (d) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 31, 2015, the Secretary 
    shall, in consultation with the Director, submit a report on the 
    strategy relating to space control and space superiority required 
    by subsection (a) to--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Select 
        Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Permanent 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Form of report.--If the report required by paragraph (1) is 
    submitted in classified form, such report shall also include an 
    unclassified summary.
    (e) Space Protection Strategy.--Section 911(d) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (10 U.S.C. 2271 note) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) Fiscal years 2026 through 2030.''.
SEC. 1607. ALLOCATION OF FUNDS FOR THE SPACE SECURITY AND DEFENSE 
PROGRAM; REPORT ON SPACE CONTROL.
    (a) Allocation of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act or any other Act and made available for the 
Space Security and Defense Program, a majority of such funds shall be 
allocated to the development of offensive space control and active 
defensive strategies and capabilities.
    (b) Statement With Respect to Allocation.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall include, in the budget justification materials submitted to 
Congress in support of the budget of the Department of Defense for a 
fiscal year (as submitted with the budget of the President under 
section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code), a statement with 
respect to whether the budget of the Department allocates funds for the 
Space Security and Defense Program as required by subsection (a).
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
that contains the following:
        (1) An updated integrated capabilities document for offensive 
    space control.
        (2) A concept of operations for the defense of critical 
    national security space assets in all orbital regimes.
        (3) An assessment of the effectiveness of existing deterrence 
    strategies.
        (4) A review of the appropriate types of accounts that should 
    be used to fund space control programs in accordance with the 
    direction required by subsection (a).
    (d) Termination of Requirement.--The requirements under subsections 
(a) and (b) shall terminate on the date that is five years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1608. PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH RUSSIAN SUPPLIERS OF ROCKET 
ENGINES FOR THE EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLE PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--Except as provided by subsections (b) and (c), 
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense may not award or renew a contract for the procurement of 
property or services for space launch activities under the evolved 
expendable launch vehicle program if such contract carries out such 
space launch activities using rocket engines designed or manufactured 
in the Russian Federation.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the prohibition under 
subsection (a) with respect to a contract for the procurement of 
property or services for space launch activities if the Secretary 
determines, and certifies to the congressional defense committees not 
later than 30 days before the waiver takes effect, that--
        (1) the waiver is necessary for the national security interests 
    of the United States; and
        (2) the space launch services and capabilities covered by the 
    contract could not be obtained at a fair and reasonable price 
    without the use of rocket engines designed or manufactured in the 
    Russian Federation.
    (c) Exception.--
        (1) In general.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not 
    apply to either--
            (A) the placement of orders or the exercise of options 
        under the contract numbered FA8811-13-C-0003 and awarded on 
        December 18, 2013; or
            (B) subject to paragraph (2), a contract awarded for the 
        procurement of property or services for space launch activities 
        that includes the use of rocket engines designed or 
        manufactured in the Russian Federation that prior to February 
        1, 2014, were either fully paid for by the contractor or 
        covered by a legally binding commitment of the contractor to 
        fully pay for such rocket engines.
        (2) Certification.--The Secretary may not award or renew a 
    contract for the procurement of property or services for space 
    launch activities described in paragraph (1)(B) unless the 
    Secretary, upon the advice of the General Counsel of the Department 
    of Defense, certifies to the congressional defense committees that 
    the offeror has provided to the Secretary sufficient documentation 
    to conclusively demonstrate that prior to February 1, 2014, the 
    offeror had either fully paid for the rocket engines described in 
    such paragraph or made a legally binding commitment to fully pay 
    for such rocket engines.
SEC. 1609. ASSESSMENT OF EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLE PROGRAM.
    Not later than June 1, 2015, the Comptroller General of the United 
States shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
the evolved expendable launch vehicle program that includes an 
assessment of the advisability of the Secretary of Defense requiring, 
when selecting launch providers for the program using competitive 
procedures as described in section 2304 of title 10, United States 
Code, that new entrant launch providers or incumbent launch providers 
establish or maintain business systems that comply with the data 
requirements and cost accounting standards of the Department of 
Defense, including certified cost or price data.
SEC. 1610. COMPETITIVE PROCEDURES REQUIRED TO LAUNCH PAYLOAD FOR 
MISSION NUMBER FIVE OF THE OPERATIONALLY RESPONSIVE SPACE PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--In awarding a contract for the launch of the 
payload for mission number five of the Operationally Responsive Space 
Program, the Secretary of the Air Force shall use competitive 
procedures described in section 2304 of title 10, United States Code, 
and ensure that the policies of the Department of Defense concerning 
competitive space launch opportunities are followed.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the requirement under 
subsection (a) if--
        (1) the Secretary--
            (A) determines that the waiver is necessary in the national 
        security interests of the United States; and
            (B) submits to the congressional defense committees a 
        report on such determination and use of the waiver; and
        (2) a period of 15 days elapses following the date on which the 
    Secretary submits such report.
SEC. 1611. AVAILABILITY OF ADDITIONAL ROCKET CORES PURSUANT TO 
COMPETITIVE PROCEDURES.
    (a) In General.--Relative to the number of rocket cores for which 
space launch providers certified under the evolved expendable launch 
vehicle program may submit bids or competitive proposals under 
competitive procedures pursuant to the National Security Space Launch 
Procurement Forecast, as of the date on which the President submitted 
the budget for fiscal year 2015 to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of 
title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall--
        (1) during fiscal year 2015, increase by one the number of such 
    cores for which such providers may submit bids or competitive 
    proposals; and
        (2) for fiscal years 2015 through 2017, increase by one (in 
    addition to the core referred to in paragraph (1)) the number of 
    such cores for which such providers may submit bids or competitive 
    proposals, unless the Secretary--
            (A) determines that there is no practicable way to increase 
        the number of such cores for which such providers may submit 
        bids or competitive proposals and remain in compliance with the 
        requirements of the firm fixed price contract for 36 rocket 
        engine cores during the five fiscal years beginning with fiscal 
        year 2013; and
            (B) not later than 45 days after making such determination, 
        submits to the congressional defense committees--
                (i) a certification that there is no practicable way to 
            make the increase described in subparagraph (A); and
                (ii) a description of the basis for the determination.
    (b) Competitive Procedures Defined.--In this section, the term 
``competitive procedures'' means procedures as described in section 
2304 of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 1612. LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR WEATHER SATELLITE 
FOLLOW-ON SYSTEM AND DEFENSE METEOROLOGICAL SATELLITE PROGRAM.
    (a) Weather Satellite Follow-on System.--
        (1) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
    this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for 
    research, development, test, and evaluation, Air Force, for the 
    weather satellite follow-on system, not more than 50 percent may be 
    obligated or expended until the date on which the Secretary of 
    Defense submits to the congressional defense committees the plan 
    under paragraph (2).
        (2) Plan required.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a 
    plan to meet the meteorological and oceanographic collection 
    requirements of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council, including 
    the requirements of the combatant commands, the military 
    departments, and the Defense Agencies (as defined in section 
    101(a)(11) of title 10, United States Code). The plan shall include 
    the following:
            (A) How the Secretary will use existing assets of the 
        defense meteorological satellite program, including an 
        identification of the extent to which requirements can be 
        addressed by the Defense Meteorological Satellite program.
            (B) How the Secretary will use other sources of data, such 
        as civil, commercial satellite weather data, and international 
        partnerships, to meet such requirements, and the extent to 
        which requirements can be addressed by such sources of data.
            (C) An explanation of the relevant risks, costs, and 
        schedule.
            (D) The requirements of the weather satellite follow-on 
        system.
        (3) GAO review.--
            (A) The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
        review the analysis of alternatives for the weather satellite 
        follow-on system, or space based environmental monitoring, to 
        determine--
                (i) the extent that such analysis of alternatives met 
            best practices and fully addressed the concerns of the 
            acquisition, operation, and user communities; and
                (ii) how the Department of Defense assessed and 
            addressed the cost, schedule, and risks posed for each 
            alternative evaluated under such analysis of alternatives.
            (B) The Comptroller General shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report containing the review 
        under subparagraph (A).
    (b) Defense Meteorological Satellite Program.--
        (1) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
    appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal 
    year 2015 for the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program may be 
    obligated or expended for the storage of a satellite of such 
    program until the Secretary of Defense certifies to the 
    congressional defense committees that--
            (A) the Department of Defense intends to launch the 
        satellite; and
            (B) storing the satellite until the anticipated launch of 
        the satellite is the most cost-effective approach to meeting 
        the requirements of the Department.
        (2) Requirements in the event of no launch.--
            (A) If the Secretary determines not to launch the next 
        satellite of the Defense Meteorological Satellite Program, the 
        Secretary shall--
                (i) certify to the congressional defense committees 
            that the Secretary will be able to meet the related 
            requirements of the Department; and
                (ii) not later than 60 days after making such 
            certification, submit to such committees a report on how 
            the Secretary will meet such related requirements.
            (B) The Comptroller General shall--
                (i) review the report submitted under subparagraph 
            (A)(ii) to ensure that such report fully addresses the 
            concerns of the user communities; and
                (ii) submit to the congressional defense committees a 
            report containing such review.
SEC. 1613. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR SPACE-BASED INFRARED 
SYSTEMS SPACE DATA EXPLOITATION.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for fiscal year 2015 for research, development, test, 
and evaluation, Air Force, for data exploitation under the space-based 
infrared systems, not more than 50 percent may be obligated or expended 
until the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force, acting as the 
Department of Defense Executive Agent for Space, submits to the 
congressional defense committees certification that--
        (1) such funds will be used in support of data exploitation of 
    the current space-based infrared systems program of record, 
    including the scanning and staring sensor; or
        (2) the data from such program of record, including such 
    scanning and starring sensor, is being fully exploited and no 
    further efforts are warranted.
SEC. 1614. LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR HOSTED PAYLOAD AND 
WIDE FIELD OF VIEW TESTBED OF THE SPACE-BASED INFRARED SYSTEMS.
    (a) Phased Limitations.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for 
research, development, test, and evaluation, Air Force, for the hosted 
payload and wide field of view testbed of the space-based infrared 
systems program--
        (1) not more than 50 percent may be obligated or expended on 
    alternative approaches to the program of record of such program 
    until the Secretary of the Air Force submits to the appropriate 
    congressional committees a copy of the analysis of alternatives for 
    such program of record; and
        (2) following the date on which the Secretary submits such 
    analysis of alternatives, not more than 75 percent may be obligated 
    or expended on alternative approaches to the program of record of 
    such program until a period of 30 days has elapsed following the 
    date on which the Secretary and the Commander of the United States 
    Strategic Command jointly provide to the appropriate congressional 
    committees a briefing on the findings and recommendations of the 
    Secretary and Commander under such analysis of alternatives, 
    including the cost evaluation of the Director of Cost Assessment 
    and Program Evaluation.
    (b) Exception.--The limitations in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to efforts to examine and develop technology insertion opportunities 
for the program of record specified in subsection (a).
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional defense committees.
        (2) The Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives.
        (3) The Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
SEC. 1615. LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR PROTECTED TACTICAL 
DEMONSTRATION AND PROTECTED MILITARY SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS TESTBED 
OF THE ADVANCED EXTREMELY HIGH FREQUENCY PROGRAM.
    (a) Phased Limitations.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for 
research, development, test, and evaluation, Air Force, for the 
protected tactical demonstration and protected military satellite 
communications testbed of the advanced extremely high frequency 
program--
        (1) not more than 50 percent may be obligated or expended on 
    alternative approaches to the program of record for such program 
    until the Secretary of the Air Force submits to the congressional 
    defense committees a copy of the analysis of alternatives for such 
    program of record; and
        (2) following the date on which the Secretary submits such 
    analysis of alternatives, not more than 75 percent may be obligated 
    or expended on alternative approaches to the program of record for 
    such program until a period of 30 days has elapsed following the 
    date on which the Secretary and the Commander of the United States 
    Strategic Command jointly provide to the congressional defense 
    committees a briefing on the findings and recommendations of the 
    Secretary and Commander under such analysis of alternatives, 
    including the cost evaluation of the Director of Cost Assessment 
    and Program Evaluation.
    (b) Exception.--The limitations in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to efforts to examine and develop technology insertion opportunities 
for the current, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, programs 
of record.
SEC. 1616. STUDY OF SPACE SITUATIONAL AWARENESS ARCHITECTURE.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall direct the Defense 
Science Board to conduct a study of the effectiveness of the ground and 
space sensor system architecture for space situational awareness.
    (b) Elements.--The study required by subsection (a) shall include 
an assessment of the following:
        (1) Projected needs, based on current and future threats, for 
    the ground and space sensor system during the five-, 
    10-, and 20-year periods beginning on the date of the enactment of 
    this Act.
        (2) Capabilities of the ground and space sensor system to 
    conduct defensive and offensive operations.
        (3) Integration of ground and space sensors with ground 
    processing, control, and battle management systems.
        (4) Any other matters relating to space situational awareness 
    the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the study conducted 
    under subsection (a).
        (2) Form of report.--If the report required by paragraph (1) is 
    submitted in classified form, such report shall also include an 
    unclassified summary.
SEC. 1617. BRIEFING ON RANGE SUPPORT FOR LAUNCHES IN SUPPORT OF 
NATIONAL SECURITY.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall provide to 
the congressional defense committees a briefing on the requirements and 
investments needed to modernize Department of Defense space launch 
facilities and supporting infrastructure.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
        (1) The results of the investigation into the failure of the 
    radar system supporting the Eastern range in March 2014, including 
    the causes for the failure.
        (2) An assessment of each current radar and other system as 
    well as supporting infrastructure required to support the mission 
    requirement of the range, including back-up systems.
        (3) An estimate of the annual level of dedicated funding 
    required to maintain and modernize the range infrastructure in 
    adequate condition to meet national security requirements.
        (4) A review of requirements to repair, upgrade, and modernize 
    the radars and other mission support systems to current 
    technologies.
        (5) A prioritized list of projects, costs, and projected 
    funding schedules needed to carry out the maintenance, repair, and 
    modernization requirements.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

SEC. 1621. TACTICAL EXPLOITATION OF NATIONAL CAPABILITIES EXECUTIVE 
AGENT.
    (a) Establishment.--Subchapter I of chapter 21 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 430. Tactical Exploitation of National Capabilities Executive 
   Agent
    ``(a) Designation.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence 
shall designate a civilian employee of the Department or a member of 
the armed forces to serve as the Tactical Exploitation of National 
Capabilities Executive Agent.
    ``(b) Duties.--The Executive Agent designated under subsection (a) 
shall--
        ``(1) report directly to the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Intelligence;
        ``(2) work with the combatant commands, military departments, 
    and the intelligence community (as defined in section 3(4) of the 
    National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)) to--
            ``(A) develop methods to increase warfighter effectiveness 
        through the exploitation of national capabilities; and
            ``(B) promote cross-domain integration of such capabilities 
        into military operations, training, intelligence, surveillance, 
        and reconnaissance activities.''.
    (b) Briefings.--At the same time as the President submits to 
Congress the budget pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, for each of 
fiscal years 2016 through 2020, the Executive Agent designated under 
subsection (a) of section 430 of title 10, United States Code (as added 
by subsection (a) of this section), in consultation with the commanders 
of the combatant commands, the Secretaries of the military departments, 
and the heads of the Department of Defense intelligence agencies and 
offices (including the Directors of the Defense Intelligence Agency, 
the National Security Agency, the National Geospatial-Intelligence 
Agency, and the National Reconnaissance Office), shall provide to the 
congressional defense committees, the Select Committee on Intelligence 
of the Senate, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of 
the House of Representatives a briefing on the investments, activities, 
challenges, and opportunities of the Executive Agent in carrying out 
the responsibilities under subsection (b) of such section 430.
SEC. 1622. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF REPORT ON IMAGERY INTELLIGENCE AND 
GEOSPATIAL INFORMATION SUPPORT PROVIDED TO REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AND 
SECURITY ALLIANCES.
    Section 921(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1878) is amended by 
striking ``2014 and 2015'' and inserting ``2014 through 2016''.
SEC. 1623. EXTENSION OF SECRETARY OF DEFENSE AUTHORITY TO ENGAGE IN 
COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES AS SECURITY FOR INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION 
ACTIVITIES.
    Section 431(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended, in the 
second sentence, by striking ``December 31, 2015'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2017''.
SEC. 1624. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY RELATING TO JURISDICTION OVER 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FACILITIES FOR INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION OR SPECIAL 
OPERATIONS ACTIVITIES ABROAD.
    Section 926(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1541) is amended, in the matter 
before paragraph (1)--
        (1) by striking ``September 30, 2015'' and inserting 
    ``September 30, 2017''; and
        (2) by striking ``fiscal year 2016'' and inserting ``fiscal 
    year 2018''.
SEC. 1625. ASSESSMENT AND LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR 
INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES AND PROGRAMS OF UNITED STATES SPECIAL 
OPERATIONS COMMAND AND SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES.
    (a) Assessment.--
        (1) Requirement.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
    Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, the Assistant 
    Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity 
    Conflict, and the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency, 
    shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress and the 
    Comptroller General of the United States an assessment of the 
    intelligence activities and programs of United States Special 
    Operations Command and special operations forces.
        (2) Inclusions.--The assessment under paragraph (1) shall 
    include each of the following elements:
            (A) An overall strategy defining such intelligence 
        activities and programs, including definitions of intelligence 
        activities and programs carried out by special operations 
        forces and how such activities and programs relate to 
        conventional military intelligence and the capabilities of the 
        Armed Forces.
            (B) The oversight roles and responsibilities of the Under 
        Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, the Assistant Secretary 
        of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict, 
        and the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Intelligence 
        Oversight with respect to the employment of special operations 
        forces for intelligence activities and programs, including an 
        analysis of any oversight limitations or gaps.
            (C) A strategy and roadmap of United States Special 
        Operations Command intelligence, surveillance, and 
        reconnaissance programs and requirements, including enabling 
        capabilities provided by the Armed Forces, for special 
        operations across the future years defense program.
            (D) A comprehensive description of Joint Staff-validated 
        current and anticipated future requirements for the 
        intelligence activities and programs of each geographic 
        combatant commander that are likely to be fulfilled by special 
        operations forces, including those that can only be addressed 
        by special operations forces, programs, or capabilities.
            (E) Validated current and expected future United States 
        Special Operations Command force structure requirements 
        necessary to meet near-, mid-, and long-term special operations 
        intelligence activities and programs of the geographic 
        combatant commanders.
            (F) A comprehensive review and assessment of statutory 
        authorities, and Department and interagency policies, including 
        limitations, for special operations forces intelligence 
        activities and programs.
            (G) A cost estimate of special operations intelligence 
        activities and programs, including an estimate of the costs of 
        the period of the current future years defense program, 
        including a description of all rules and assumptions used to 
        develop the cost estimates.
            (H) A copy of any memoranda of understanding or memoranda 
        of agreement between the Department of Defense and other 
        departments or agencies of the United States Government, or 
        between components of the Department of Defense that are 
        required to implement objectives of special operations 
        intelligence activities and programs.
            (I) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (3) Form.--The assessment required under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
        (4) Comptroller general review.--Not later than 60 days after 
    the date on which the assessment required under paragraph (1) is 
    submitted, the Comptroller General shall submit to the appropriate 
    committees of Congress a review of such assessment. Such review 
    shall include an assessment of--
            (A) the extent to which the assessment required under 
        paragraph (1) addressed the elements required under paragraph 
        (2);
            (B) the sufficiency of oversight of the intelligence 
        activities and programs of special operations forces by the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, the Assistant 
        Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity 
        Conflict, and the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for 
        Intelligence Oversight;
            (C) the validity of the cost estimate of special operations 
        intelligence activities and programs required by paragraph 
        (2)(G); and
            (D) any other matters the Comptroller General determines 
        are relevant.
    (b) Limitations.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), not more than 50 
    percent of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
    otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for procurement, 
    Defense-wide, for intelligence systems, and for research, 
    development, test, and evaluation, Defense-wide, for intelligence 
    systems development may be obligated until the assessment required 
    under subsection (a) is submitted.
        (2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply--
            (A) with respect to funds authorized to be appropriated for 
        Overseas Contingency Operations under title XV; or
            (B) in any case where the Secretary of Defense determines 
        the limitation in paragraph (1) may impede a current operation.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
    committees of Congress'' means the congressional defense 
    committees, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    House of Representatives, and the Select Committee on Intelligence 
    of the Senate.
        (2) Future years defense program.--The term ``future years 
    defense program'' means the future years defense program under 
    section 221 of title 10, United States Code.
        (3) Geographic combatant commander.--The term ``geographic 
    combatant commander'' means a commander of a combatant command (as 
    defined in section 161(c) of title 10, United States Code) with a 
    geographic area of responsibility.
SEC. 1626. ANNUAL BRIEFING ON THE INTELLIGENCE, SURVEILLANCE, AND 
RECONNAISSANCE REQUIREMENTS OF THE COMBATANT COMMANDS.
    At the same time that the President's budget is submitted pursuant 
to section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, for each of fiscal 
years 2016 through 2020--
        (1) the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall provide to 
    the congressional defense committees, the Permanent Select 
    Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the 
    Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate a briefing on--
            (A) the intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance 
        requirements, by specific intelligence capability type, of each 
        of the combatant commands;
            (B) for the year preceding the year in which the briefing 
        is provided, the satisfaction rate of each of the combatant 
        commands with the intelligence, surveillance, and 
        reconnaissance requirements, by specific intelligence 
        capability type, of such combatant command; and
            (C) a risk analysis identifying the critical gaps and 
        shortfalls in such requirements in relation to such 
        satisfaction rate; and
        (2) the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence shall 
    provide to the congressional defense committees, the Permanent 
    Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, 
    and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate a briefing 
    on short-term, mid-term, and long-term strategies to address the 
    critical intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance requirements 
    of the combatant commands.
SEC. 1627. PROHIBITION ON NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM CONSOLIDATION.
    (a) Prohibition.--No amounts authorized to be appropriated or 
otherwise made available to the Department of Defense may be used 
during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act 
and ending on December 31, 2015, to execute--
        (1) the separation of the National Intelligence Program budget 
    from the Department of Defense budget;
        (2) the consolidation of the National Intelligence Program 
    budget within the Department of Defense budget; or
        (3) the establishment of a new appropriations account or 
    appropriations account structure for the National Intelligence 
    Program budget.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) National intelligence program.--The term ``National 
    Intelligence Program'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 
    of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
        (2) National intelligence program budget.--The term ``National 
    Intelligence Program budget'' means the portions of the Department 
    of Defense budget designated as part of the National Intelligence 
    Program.
SEC. 1628. PERSONNEL SECURITY AND INSIDER THREAT.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than March 30, 2015, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the plans of the 
Department to address--
        (1) the adoption of an interim capability to continuously 
    evaluate the security status of the employees and contractors of 
    the Department who have been determined eligible for and granted 
    access to classified information by the Department of Defense 
    Central Adjudication Facilities;
        (2) the use of an interim system to assist in developing 
    requirements, lessons learned, business rules, privacy standards, 
    and operational concepts applicable to the objective automated 
    records checks and continuous evaluation capability required by the 
    strategy for modernizing personnel security;
        (3) the engineering for an interim system and the objective 
    automated records checks and continuous evaluation capability for 
    initial investigations and reinvestigations required by the 
    strategy for modernizing personnel security to support automation-
    assisted insider threat analyses conducted across the law 
    enforcement, personnel security, human resources, 
    counterintelligence, physical security, network behavior 
    monitoring, and cybersecurity activities of all the components of 
    the Department of Defense, pursuant to Executive Order 13587;
        (4) how competitive processes and open systems designs will be 
    used to acquire advanced commercial technologies throughout the 
    life cycle of the objective continuous evaluation capability 
    required by the strategy for modernizing personnel security;
        (5) how the senior agency official in the Department of Defense 
    for insider threat detection and prevention will be supported by 
    experts in counterintelligence, personnel security, law 
    enforcement, human resources, physical security, network 
    monitoring, cybersecurity, and privacy and civil liberties from 
    relevant components of the Department and experts in information 
    technology, large-scale data analysis, systems engineering, and 
    program acquisition;
        (6) how the senior agency official, in developing the 
    integrated, automation-assisted insider threat capability, will be 
    supported by--
            (A) the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
        Technology, and Logistics;
            (B) the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
        Defense; and
            (C) the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
        Readiness; and
        (7) who will be responsible and accountable for managing the 
    development and fielding of the automation-assisted insider threat 
    capability.
    (b) Inclusion of Gaps.--The report required under subsection (a) 
shall include specific gaps in policy and statute to address the 
requirements placed on the Department by section 907(c) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66) and 
Executive Order 13587.
    (c) Strategy for Modernizing Personnel Security Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``strategy for modernizing personnel security'' means 
the strategy developed under section 907(c) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66).
SEC. 1629. MIGRATION OF DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND SYSTEM OF DEPARTMENT 
OF THE ARMY TO AN OPEN SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE.
    (a) Migration Required.--Not later than three years after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall migrate 
the Distributed Common Ground System of the Department of the Army, 
including the Red Disk initiative under development at the Intelligence 
and Security Command, to an open system architecture to enable--
        (1) competitive acquisition of components, services, and 
    applications for the Distributed Common Ground System; and
        (2) rapid competitive development and integration of new 
    capabilities for the Distributed Common Ground System.
    (b) Compliance With Open System Architecture Standards.--In 
carrying out the migration required by subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall ensure that the Distributed Common Ground System--
        (1) is in compliance with the open system architecture 
    standards developed under the Defense Intelligence Information 
    Enterprise by the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence; and
        (2) reuses services and components of the Defense Intelligence 
    Information Enterprise.
    (c) Open System Architecture Defined.--In this section, the term 
``open system architecture'' means, with respect to an information 
technology system, an integrated business and technical strategy that--
        (1) employs a modular design and uses widely supported and 
    consensus-based standards for key interfaces;
        (2) is subjected to successful validation and verification 
    tests to ensure key interfaces comply with widely supported and 
    consensus-based standards; and
        (3) uses a system architecture that allows components to be 
    added, modified, replaced, removed, or supported by different 
    vendors throughout the life-cycle of the system to afford 
    opportunities for enhanced competition and innovation while 
    yielding--
            (A) significant cost and schedule savings; and
            (B) increased interoperability.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

SEC. 1631. BUDGETING AND ACCOUNTING FOR CYBER MISSION FORCES.
    (a) Budgeting.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 9 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 238. Cyber mission forces: program elements
    ``(a) Budget Justification Display.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to Congress, as a part of the defense budget materials for 
fiscal year 2017 and each fiscal year thereafter, a budget 
justification display that includes--
        ``(1) a major force program category for the five-year defense 
    plan of the Department of Defense for the training, manning, and 
    equipping of the cyber mission forces; and
        ``(2) program elements for the cyber mission forces.
    ``(b) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the requirement under 
subsection (a) for fiscal year 2017 if the Secretary--
        ``(1) determines the Secretary is unable to comply with such 
    requirement for fiscal year 2017; and
        ``(2) establishes a plan to implement the requirement for 
    fiscal year 2018.''.
        (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 9 of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
    following new item:

``238. Cyber mission forces: program elements.''.

    (b) Assessment of Transfer Account for Cyber Activities.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall assess the feasibility and 
    advisability of establishing a transfer account to execute the 
    funds contained in the major force program category required by 
    subsection (a).
        (2) Report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2015, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
        a report on the assessment carried out under paragraph (1).
            (B) Contents.--The report required by subparagraph (A) 
        shall include the following:
                (i) The findings of the Secretary with respect to the 
            assessment carried out under paragraph (1).
                (ii) A recommendation as to whether a transfer account 
            should be established as described in such paragraph.
SEC. 1632. REPORTING ON CYBER INCIDENTS WITH RESPECT TO NETWORKS AND 
INFORMATION SYSTEMS OF OPERATIONALLY CRITICAL CONTRACTORS.
    (a) Reporting.--Part I of subtitle A of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after chapter 18 the following new 
chapter:

                      ``CHAPTER 19--CYBER MATTERS

``Sec.
``391. Reporting on cyber incidents with respect to networks and 
          information systems of operationally critical contractors.

``Sec. 391. Reporting on cyber incidents with respect to networks and 
   information systems of operationally critical contractors and 
   certain other contractors
    ``(a) Designation of Department Component to Receive Reports.--The 
Secretary of Defense shall designate a component of the Department of 
Defense to receive reports of cyber incidents from contractors in 
accordance with this section and with section 941 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (10 U.S.C. 2224 note) or 
from other governmental entities.
    ``(b) Procedures for Reporting Cyber Incidents.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall establish procedures that require an operationally 
critical contractor to report in a timely manner to component 
designated under subsection (a) each time a cyber incident occurs with 
respect to a network or information system of such operationally 
critical contractor.
    ``(c) Procedure Requirements.--
        ``(1) Designation and notification.--The procedures established 
    pursuant to subsection (a) shall include a process for--
            ``(A) designating operationally critical contractors; and
            ``(B) notifying a contractor that it has been designated as 
        an operationally critical contractor.
        ``(2) Rapid reporting.--The procedures established pursuant to 
    subsection (a) shall require each operationally critical contractor 
    to rapidly report to the component of the Department designated 
    pursuant to subsection (d)(2)(A) on each cyber incident with 
    respect to any network or information systems of such contractor. 
    Each such report shall include the following:
            ``(A) An assessment by the contractor of the effect of the 
        cyber incident on the ability of the contractor to meet the 
        contractual requirements of the Department.
            ``(B) The technique or method used in such cyber incident.
            ``(C) A sample of any malicious software, if discovered and 
        isolated by the contractor, involved in such cyber incident.
            ``(D) A summary of information compromised by such cyber 
        incident.
        ``(3) Department assistance and access to equipment and 
    information by department personnel.--The procedures established 
    pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
            ``(A) include mechanisms for Department personnel to, if 
        requested, assist operationally critical contractors in 
        detecting and mitigating penetrations; and
            ``(B) provide that an operationally critical contractor is 
        only required to provide access to equipment or information as 
        described in subparagraph (A) to determine whether information 
        created by or for the Department in connection with any 
        Department program was successfully exfiltrated from a network 
        or information system of such contractor and, if so, what 
        information was exfiltrated.
        ``(4) Protection of trade secrets and other information.--The 
    procedures established pursuant to subsection (a) shall provide for 
    the reasonable protection of trade secrets, commercial or financial 
    information, and information that can be used to identify a 
    specific person.
        ``(5) Dissemination of information.--The procedures established 
    pursuant to subsection (a) shall limit the dissemination of 
    information obtained or derived through the procedures to 
    entities--
            ``(A) with missions that may be affected by such 
        information;
            ``(B) that may be called upon to assist in the diagnosis, 
        detection, or mitigation of cyber incidents;
            ``(C) that conduct counterintelligence or law enforcement 
        investigations; or
            ``(D) for national security purposes, including cyber 
        situational awareness and defense purposes.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Cyber incident.--The term `cyber incident' means actions 
    taken through the use of computer networks that result in an actual 
    or potentially adverse effect on an information system or the 
    information residing therein.
        ``(2) Operationally critical contractor.--The term 
    `operationally critical contractor' means a contractor designated 
    by the Secretary for purposes of this section as a critical source 
    of supply for airlift, sealift, intermodal transportation services, 
    or logistical support that is essential to the mobilization, 
    deployment, or sustainment of the Armed Forces in a contingency 
    operation.''.
    (b) Issuance of Procedures.--The Secretary shall establish the 
procedures required by subsection (b) of section 391 of title 10, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this section, not 
later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Assessment of Department Policies.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of the Act, the Secretary of Defense shall complete an 
    assessment of--
            (A) requirements that were in effect on the day before the 
        date of the enactment of this Act for contractors to share 
        information with Department components regarding cyber 
        incidents (as defined in subsection (d) of such section 391) 
        with respect to networks or information systems of contractors; 
        and
            (B) Department policies and systems for sharing information 
        on cyber incidents with respect to networks or information 
        systems of Department contractors.
        (2) Actions following assessment.--Upon completion of the 
    assessment required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
            (A) designate a Department component under subsection (a) 
        of such section 391; and
            (B) issue or revise guidance applicable to Department 
        components that ensures the rapid sharing by the component 
        designated pursuant to such section 391 or section 941 of the 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (10 
        U.S.C. 2224 note) of information relating to cyber incidents 
        with respect to networks or information systems of contractors 
        with other appropriate Department components.
    (d) Table of Chapters Amendment.--The table of chapters at the 
beginning of subtitle A of title 10, United States Code, and at the 
beginning of part I of such subtitle, are each amended by inserting 
after the item relating to chapter 18 the following new item:

``19.  Cyber matters..............................................391''.

SEC. 1633. EXECUTIVE AGENTS FOR CYBER TEST AND TRAINING RANGES.
    (a) Executive Agent.--Chapter 19 of title 10, United States Code, 
as added by section 1632 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:
``Sec. 392. Executive agents for cyber test and training ranges
    ``(a) Executive Agent.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
with the Principal Cyber Advisor, shall--
        ``(1) designate a senior official from among the personnel of 
    the Department of Defense to act as the executive agent for cyber 
    and information technology test ranges; and
        ``(2) designate a senior official from among the personnel of 
    the Department of Defense to act as the executive agent for cyber 
    and information technology training ranges.
    ``(b) Roles, Responsibilities, and Authorities.--
        ``(1) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
    the roles, responsibilities, and authorities of the executive 
    agents designated under subsection (a). Such roles, 
    responsibilities, and authorities shall include the development of 
    a biennial integrated plan for cyber and information technology 
    test and training resources.
        ``(2) Biennial integrated plan.--The biennial integrated plan 
    required under paragraph (1) shall include plans for the following:
            ``(A) Developing and maintaining a comprehensive list of 
        cyber and information technology ranges, test facilities, test 
        beds, and other means of testing, training, and developing 
        software, personnel, and tools for accommodating the mission of 
        the Department. Such list shall include resources from both 
        governmental and nongovernmental entities.
            ``(B) Organizing and managing designated cyber and 
        information technology test ranges, including--
                ``(i) establishing the priorities for cyber and 
            information technology ranges to meet Department 
            objectives;
                ``(ii) enforcing standards to meet requirements 
            specified by the United States Cyber Command, the training 
            community, and the research, development, testing, and 
            evaluation community;
                ``(iii) identifying and offering guidance on the 
            opportunities for integration amongst the designated cyber 
            and information technology ranges regarding test, training, 
            and development functions;
                ``(iv) finding opportunities for cost reduction, 
            integration, and coordination improvements for the 
            appropriate cyber and information technology ranges;
                ``(v) adding or consolidating cyber and information 
            technology ranges in the future to better meet the evolving 
            needs of the cyber strategy and resource requirements of 
            the Department;
                ``(vi) finding opportunities to continuously enhance 
            the quality and technical expertise of the cyber and 
            information technology test workforce through training and 
            personnel policies; and
                ``(vii) coordinating with interagency and industry 
            partners on cyber and information technology range issues.
            ``(C) Defining a cyber range architecture that--
                ``(i) may add or consolidate cyber and information 
            technology ranges in the future to better meet the evolving 
            needs of the cyber strategy and resource requirements of 
            the Department;
                ``(ii) coordinates with interagency and industry 
            partners on cyber and information technology range issues;
                ``(iii) allows for integrated closed loop testing in a 
            secure environment of cyber and electronic warfare 
            capabilities;
                ``(iv) supports science and technology development, 
            experimentation, testing and training; and
                ``(v) provides for interconnection with other existing 
            cyber ranges and other kinetic range facilities in a 
            distributed manner.
            ``(D) Certifying all cyber range investments of the 
        Department of Defense.
            ``(E) Performing such other assessments or analyses as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
        ``(3) Standard for cyber event data.--The executive agents 
    designated under subsection (a), in consultation with the Chief 
    Information Officer of the Department of Defense, shall jointly 
    select a standard language from open-source candidates for 
    representing and communicating cyber event and threat data. Such 
    language shall be machine-readable for the Joint Information 
    Environment and associated test and training ranges.
    ``(c) Support Within Department of Defense.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall ensure that the military departments, Defense Agencies, 
and other components of the Department of Defense provide the executive 
agents designated under subsection (a) with the appropriate support and 
resources needed to perform the roles, responsibilities, and 
authorities of the executive agents.
    ``(d) Compliance With Existing Directive.--The Secretary shall 
carry out this section in compliance with Directive 5101.1.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `designated cyber and information technology 
    range' includes the National Cyber Range, the Joint Information 
    Operations Range, the Defense Information Assurance Range, and the 
    C4 Assessments Division of J6 of the Joint Staff.
        ``(2) The term `Directive 5101.1' means Department of Defense 
    Directive 5101.1, or any successor directive relating to the 
    responsibilities of an executive agent of the Department of 
    Defense.
        ``(3) The term `executive agent' has the meaning given the term 
    `DoD Executive Agent' in Directive 5101.1.''.
    (b) Designation and Roles and Responsibilities.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall--
        (1) not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, designate the executive agents required under subsection 
    (a) of section 392 of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
    subsection (a) of this section; and
        (2) not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, prescribe the roles, responsibilities, and authorities 
    required under subsection (b) of such section 392.
    (c) Selection of Standard Language.--Not later than June 1, 2015, 
the executive agents designated under subsection (a) of section 392 of 
title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this 
section, shall select the standard language under subsection (b)(3) of 
such section 392.
    (d) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of chapter 19 of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
section 1632 of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``392. Executive agents for cyber test and training ranges.''.
SEC. 1634. CYBERSPACE MAPPING.
    (a) Designation of Network.--Not later than 60 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop a 
plan to use a controlled laboratory environment or an existing network 
or network segment within the Department of Defense to identify network 
mapping capabilities to meet requirements of the United States Cyber 
Command.
    (b) Recommendations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Principal Cyber Advisor shall submit to the 
Secretary policy recommendations regarding the mapping of cyberspace to 
support the operational requirements of the United States Cyber 
Command.
SEC. 1635. REVIEW OF CROSS DOMAIN SOLUTION POLICY AND REQUIREMENT FOR 
CROSS DOMAIN SOLUTION STRATEGY.
    (a) Review of Policy.--The Secretary of Defense shall review the 
policies and guidance of the Department of Defense concerning the 
procurement, approval, and use of cross domain solutions by the 
Department of Defense.
    (b) Strategy for Cross Domain Solutions.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a strategy for 
    procurement, approval, and use of cross domain solutions by the 
    Department.
        (2) Elements.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) Identification and assessment of the current cross 
        domain solutions in use throughout the Department of Defense, 
        including the relative capabilities of such solutions and any 
        gaps in current capabilities.
            (B) A determination of the requirements for cross domain 
        solutions for enterprise applications as well as deployed 
        warfighting operations, including operations with coalition 
        partners.
            (C) A plan to enable verification of compliance with 
        Department of Defense policies regarding the use of cross 
        domain solutions.
            (D) A review of the current Department of Defense 
        Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process 
        for the applicability of such process to future virtualized 
        cross domain technology.
            (E) A plan to meet the cross domain solution requirements 
        for the Defense Intelligence Information Enterprise that must 
        operate within the Joint Information Environment and the 
        Intelligence Community Information Technology Environment.
SEC. 1636. REQUIREMENT FOR STRATEGY TO DEVELOP AND DEPLOY DECRYPTION 
SERVICE FOR THE JOINT INFORMATION ENVIRONMENT.
    (a) Strategy Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a 
strategy to develop and deploy a decryption service that enables the 
efficient decryption and re-encryption of encrypted communications 
within the Joint Information Environment and through the Internet 
access points of the Joint Information Environment in a manner that 
allows the Secretary to inspect the content of such communications to 
detect cyber threats and insider threat activity.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy required developed pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall include the following:
        (1) Requirements.
        (2) An estimate of the cost.
        (3) An assessment of the added security benefit.
        (4) An architecture.
        (5) A concept of operations.
    (c) Congressional Briefing.--Not later than October 1, 2015, the 
Secretary shall brief the congressional defense committees and the 
congressional intelligence committees (as defined in section 3 of the 
National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)) on the strategy 
developed under subsection (a).
SEC. 1637. ACTIONS TO ADDRESS ECONOMIC OR INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE IN 
CYBERSPACE.
    (a) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter through 2020, the 
    President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
    a report on foreign economic and industrial espionage in cyberspace 
    during the 12-month period preceding the submission of the report 
    that--
            (A) identifies--
                (i) foreign countries that engage in economic or 
            industrial espionage in cyberspace with respect to trade 
            secrets or proprietary information owned by United States 
            persons;
                (ii) foreign countries identified under clause (i) that 
            the President determines engage in the most egregious 
            economic or industrial espionage in cyberspace with respect 
            to such trade secrets or proprietary information (to be 
            known as ``priority foreign countries'');
                (iii) categories of technologies or proprietary 
            information developed by United States persons that--

                    (I) are targeted for economic or industrial 
                espionage in cyberspace; and
                    (II) to the extent practicable, have been 
                appropriated through such espionage;

                (iv) articles manufactured or otherwise produced using 
            technologies or proprietary information described in clause 
            (iii)(II); and
                (v) to the extent practicable, services provided using 
            such technologies or proprietary information;
            (B) describes the economic or industrial espionage engaged 
        in by the foreign countries identified under clauses (i) and 
        (ii) of subparagraph (A); and
            (C) describes--
                (i) actions taken by the President to decrease the 
            prevalence of economic or industrial espionage in 
            cyberspace; and
                (ii) the progress made in decreasing the prevalence of 
            such espionage.
        (2) Determination of foreign countries engaging in economic or 
    industrial espionage in cyberspace.--For purposes of clauses (i) 
    and (ii) of paragraph (1)(A), the President shall identify a 
    foreign country as a foreign country that engages in economic or 
    industrial espionage in cyberspace with respect to trade secrets or 
    proprietary information owned by United States persons if the 
    government of the foreign country--
            (A) engages in economic or industrial espionage in 
        cyberspace with respect to trade secrets or proprietary 
        information owned by United States persons; or
            (B) facilitates, supports, fails to prosecute, or otherwise 
        permits such espionage by--
                (i) individuals who are citizens or residents of the 
            foreign country; or
                (ii) entities that are organized under the laws of the 
            foreign country or are otherwise subject to the 
            jurisdiction of the government of the foreign country.
        (3) Form of report.--Each report required by paragraph (1) 
    shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a 
    classified annex.
    (b) Imposition of Sanctions.--
        (1) In general.--The President may, pursuant to the 
    International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et 
    seq.), block and prohibit all transactions in all property and 
    interests in property of each person described in paragraph (2), if 
    such property and interests in property are in the United States, 
    come within the United States, or are or come within the possession 
    or control of a United States person.
        (2) Persons described.--A person described in this paragraph is 
    a foreign person the President determines knowingly requests, 
    engages in, supports, facilitates, or benefits from the significant 
    appropriation, through economic or industrial espionage in 
    cyberspace, of technologies or proprietary information developed by 
    United States persons.
        (3) Exception.--The authority to impose sanctions under 
    paragraph (1) shall not include the authority to impose sanctions 
    on the importation of goods.
        (4) Implementation; penalties.--
            (A) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
        authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 
        1704) to carry out this subsection.
            (B) Penalties.--The penalties provided for in subsections 
        (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person 
        that violates, attempts to violate, or conspires to violate, or 
        causes a violation of, this subsection or a regulation 
        prescribed under this subsection to the same extent that such 
        penalties apply to a person that commits an unlawful act 
        described in section 206(a) of that Act.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to affect the application of any penalty or the exercise of 
any authority provided for under any other provision of law.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation, the Committee on Homeland Security 
        and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on Finance, the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Homeland Security, the 
        Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Foreign 
        Affairs, the Committee on Ways and Means, and the Permanent 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Cyberspace.--The term ``cyberspace''--
            (A) means the interdependent network of information 
        technology infrastructures; and
            (B) includes the Internet, telecommunications networks, 
        computer systems, and embedded processors and controllers.
        (3) Economic or industrial espionage.--The term ``economic or 
    industrial espionage'' means--
            (A) stealing a trade secret or proprietary information or 
        appropriating, taking, carrying away, or concealing, or by 
        fraud, artifice, or deception obtaining, a trade secret or 
        proprietary information without the authorization of the owner 
        of the trade secret or proprietary information;
            (B) copying, duplicating, downloading, uploading, 
        destroying, transmitting, delivering, sending, communicating, 
        or conveying a trade secret or proprietary information without 
        the authorization of the owner of the trade secret or 
        proprietary information; or
            (C) knowingly receiving, buying, or possessing a trade 
        secret or proprietary information that has been stolen or 
        appropriated, obtained, or converted without the authorization 
        of the owner of the trade secret or proprietary information.
        (4) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'', with respect to 
    conduct, a circumstance, or a result, means that a person has 
    actual knowledge, or should have known, of the conduct, the 
    circumstance, or the result.
        (5) Own.--The term ``own'', with respect to a trade secret or 
    proprietary information, means to hold rightful legal or equitable 
    title to, or license in, the trade secret or proprietary 
    information.
        (6) Person.--The term ``person'' means an individual or entity.
        (7) Proprietary information.--The term ``proprietary 
    information'' means competitive bid preparations, negotiating 
    strategies, executive emails, internal financial data, strategic 
    business plans, technical designs, manufacturing processes, source 
    code, data derived from research and development investments, and 
    other commercially valuable information that a person has developed 
    or obtained if--
            (A) the person has taken reasonable measures to keep the 
        information confidential; and
            (B) the information is not generally known or readily 
        ascertainable through proper means by the public.
        (8) Technology.--The term ``technology'' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 16 of the Export Administration Act of 1979 
    (50 U.S.C. App. 2415) (as in effect pursuant to the International 
    Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)).
        (9) Trade secret.--The term ``trade secret'' has the meaning 
    given that term in section 1839 of title 18, United States Code.
        (10) United states person.--The term ``United States person'' 
    means--
            (A) an individual who is a citizen or resident of the 
        United States;
            (B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States 
        or any jurisdiction within the United States; or
            (C) a person located in the United States.
SEC. 1638. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING ROLE OF RESERVE COMPONENTS IN 
DEFENSE OF UNITED STATES AGAINST CYBER ATTACKS.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) members of the reserve components may possess knowledge of 
    critical infrastructure in the States in which the members serve 
    that may be of value for purposes of defending such infrastructure 
    against cyber threats;
        (2) traditional members of the reserve components and reserve 
    component technicians may have experience in both the private and 
    public sector that could benefit the readiness of the Department of 
    Defense's cyber force and the development of cyber capabilities;
        (3) the long-standing relationship the reserve components has 
    with local and civil authorities may be beneficial for purposes of 
    providing for a coordinated response to a cyber attack and 
    defending against cyber threats;
        (4) the States are already working to establish cyber 
    partnerships with the reserve components; and
        (5) the reserve components have a role in the defense of the 
    United States against cyber threats and consideration should be 
    given to how the reserve components might be integrated into a 
    comprehensive national approach for cyber defense.
SEC. 1639. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE FUTURE OF THE INTERNET AND THE .MIL 
TOP-LEVEL DOMAIN.
    It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should--
        (1) work within the existing interagency process underway as of 
    the date of the enactment of this Act regarding the transfer of the 
    remaining role of the United States Government in the functions of 
    the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority to a global multi-
    stakeholder community and support transferring this role only if--
            (A) assurances are provided for the protection of the 
        current status of legacy top-level domain names and Internet 
        Protocol address numbers, particularly those used by the 
        Department of Defense and the components of the United States 
        Government for national security purposes;
            (B) mechanisms are institutionalized to uphold and protect 
        consensus-based decision making in the multi-stakeholder 
        approach; and
            (C) existing stress-testing scenarios of the accountability 
        process of the multi-stakeholder model can be confidently shown 
        to work transparently, securely, and efficiently to maintain a 
        free, open, and resilient Internet; and
        (2) take all necessary steps to sustain the successful 
    stewardship and good standing of the Internet root zone servers 
    managed by components of the Department of Defense, including 
    active participation, review, and analysis for transition planning 
    documents and accountability stress testing.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

SEC. 1641. PREPARATION OF ANNUAL BUDGET REQUEST REGARDING NUCLEAR 
WEAPONS.
    Section 179(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
    ``(3)(A) With respect to the preparation of a budget for a fiscal 
year to be submitted by the President to Congress under section 1105(a) 
of title 31, the Secretary of Defense may not agree to a proposed 
transfer of estimated nuclear budget request authority unless the 
Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense committees a 
report described in subparagraph (B).
    ``(B) A report described in this subparagraph is a report that 
includes the following:
        ``(i) Except as provided by subparagraph (C), certification 
    that, during the fiscal year prior to the fiscal year covered by 
    the budget for which the report is submitted, the Secretary of 
    Energy obligated or expended any amounts covered by a proposed 
    transfer of estimated nuclear budget request authority made for 
    such prior fiscal year in a manner consistent with a memorandum of 
    agreement that was developed by the Nuclear Weapons Council and 
    entered into by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
    Energy.
        ``(ii) A detailed assessment by the Nuclear Weapons Council 
    regarding how the Administrator for Nuclear Security implemented 
    any agreements and decisions of the Council made during such prior 
    fiscal year.
        ``(iii) An assessment from each of the Chairman of the Joints 
    Chiefs of Staff and the Commander of the United States Strategic 
    Command regarding any effects to the military during such prior 
    fiscal year that were caused by the delay or failure of the 
    Administrator to implement any agreements or decisions described in 
    clause (ii).
    ``(C) With respect to a report described in subparagraph (B), the 
Secretary may waive the requirement to include the certification 
described in clause (i) of such subparagraph if the Secretary--
        ``(i) determines that such waiver is in the national security 
    interests of the United States; and
        ``(ii) instead of the certification described in such clause 
    (i), includes as part of such report--
            ``(I) a copy of the agreement that the Secretary has 
        entered into with the Secretary of Energy regarding the manner 
        and the purpose for which the Secretary of Energy will obligate 
        or expend any amounts covered by a proposed transfer of 
        estimated nuclear budget request authority for the fiscal year 
        covered by the budget for which such report is submitted; and
            ``(II) an explanation for why the Secretary did not include 
        such certification in such report.
    ``(4) The Secretary of Defense shall include with the defense 
budget materials for a fiscal year the memorandum of agreement 
described in subparagraph (B)(i) of paragraph (3), or the agreement 
described in subparagraph (C) of such paragraph, as the case may be, 
that covers such fiscal year.
    ``(5)(A) Not later than 30 days after the President submits to 
Congress the budget for a fiscal year under section 1105(a) of title 
31, the Commander of the United States Strategic Command shall submit 
to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff an assessment of--
        ``(i) whether such budget allows the Federal Government to meet 
    the nuclear stockpile and stockpile stewardship program 
    requirements during the fiscal year covered by the budget and the 
    four subsequent fiscal years; and
        ``(ii) if the Commander determines that such budget does not 
    allow the Federal Government to meet such requirements, a 
    description of the steps being taken to meet such requirements.
    ``(B) Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff receives the assessment of the Commander 
of the United States Strategic Command under subparagraph (A), the 
Chairman shall submit to the congressional defense committees--
        ``(i) such assessment as it was submitted to the Chairman; and
        ``(ii) any comments of the Chairman.
    ``(6) In this subsection:
        ``(A) The term `budget' has the meaning given that term in 
    section 231(f) of this title.
        ``(B) The term `defense budget materials' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 231(f) of this title.
        ``(C) The term `proposed transfer of estimated nuclear budget 
    request authority' means, in preparing a budget, a request for the 
    Secretary of Defense to transfer an estimated amount of the 
    proposed budget authority of the Secretary to the Secretary of 
    Energy for purposes relating to nuclear weapons.''.
SEC. 1642. IMPROVEMENT TO BIENNIAL ASSESSMENT ON DELIVERY PLATFORMS FOR 
NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND THE NUCLEAR COMMAND AND CONTROL SYSTEM.
    Section 492(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``, and the ability to meet operational availability 
requirements for,'' after ``military effectiveness of''.
SEC. 1643. CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE REVIEW OF COST ESTIMATES FOR 
NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
    Section 1043 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1576), as most recently amended 
by section 1054 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 861), is further amended by 
striking subsection (b) and inserting the following new subsection (b):
    ``(b) Estimate of Costs by Congressional Budget Office.--
        ``(1) Budgets for odd-numbered fiscal years.--Not later than 
    July 1 of each year in which the President transmits a covered odd-
    numbered fiscal year report, the Director of the Congressional 
    Budget Office shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
    a report that includes--
            ``(A) an estimate of the costs during the 10-year period 
        beginning on the date of such covered odd-numbered fiscal year 
        report associated with fielding and maintaining the current 
        nuclear weapons and nuclear weapon delivery systems of the 
        United States;
            ``(B) an estimate of the costs during such period of any 
        life extension, modernization, or replacement of any current 
        nuclear weapons or nuclear weapon delivery systems of the 
        United States that is anticipated as of the date of such 
        covered odd-numbered fiscal year report; and
            ``(C) an estimate of the relative percentage of total 
        defense spending during such period represented by the costs 
        estimated under subparagraphs (A) and (B).
        ``(2) Budgets for even-numbered fiscal years.--If the Director 
    determines that a covered even-numbered fiscal year report contains 
    a significant change that affects the estimates of the Director 
    included in the report submitted under paragraph (1) in the year 
    prior to the year in which such covered even-numbered fiscal year 
    report is submitted, the Director shall submit to the congressional 
    defense committees a letter describing such significant changes.
        ``(3) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            ``(A) The term `covered even-numbered fiscal year report' 
        means a report required to be transmitted under subsection 
        (a)(1) not later than 30 days after the submission to Congress 
        of the budget of the President for an even-numbered fiscal 
        year.
            ``(B) The term `covered odd-numbered fiscal year report' 
        means a report required to be transmitted under subsection 
        (a)(1) not later than 30 days after the submission to Congress 
        of the budget of the President for an odd-numbered fiscal 
        year.''.
SEC. 1644. RETENTION OF MISSILE SILOS.
    (a) Requirement.--During the period in which the New START Treaty 
(as defined in section 494(a)(2)(D) of title 10, United States Code) is 
in effect, the Secretary of Defense shall preserve each 
intercontinental ballistic missile silo that contains a deployed 
missile as of the date of the enactment of this Act in, at minimum, a 
warm status that enables such silo to--
        (1) remain a fully functioning element of the interconnected 
    and redundant command and control system of the missile field; and
        (2) be made fully operational with a deployed missile.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in subsection (b) shall be 
construed to prohibit the Secretary of Defense from temporarily placing 
an intercontinental ballistic missile silo offline to perform 
maintenance activities.
SEC. 1645. PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN PARTS OF INTERCONTINENTAL 
BALLISTIC MISSILE FUZES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Air Force may enter into 
contracts for the life-of-type procurement of covered parts of the 
intercontinental ballistic missile fuze.
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Notwithstanding section 1502(a) of 
title 31, United States Code, of the amount authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2015 by section 101 and available for 
Missile Procurement, Air Force as specified in the funding table in 
section 4101, $4,700,000 shall be available for the procurement of 
covered parts pursuant to contracts entered into under subsection (a).
    (c) Covered Parts Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
parts'' means commercially available off-the-shelf items as defined in 
section 104 of title 41, United States Code.
SEC. 1646. ASSESSMENT OF NUCLEAR WEAPON SECONDARY REQUIREMENT.
    (a) Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Secretary of Energy and the Commander of the United States Strategic 
Command, shall assess the annual secondary production requirement 
needed to sustain a safe, secure, reliable, and effective nuclear 
deterrent.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
    with the Secretary of Energy and the Commander of the United States 
    Strategic Command, shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a report regarding the assessment conducted under 
    subsection (a).
        (2) Matters included.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) An explanation of the rationale and assumptions that 
        led to the current 50 to 80 secondaries per year production 
        requirement, including the factors considered in determining 
        such requirement.
            (B) An analysis of whether there are any changes to such 50 
        to 80 secondaries per year production requirement, including 
        the reasons for any such changes.
            (C) A description of how the secondary production 
        requirement is affected by or related to--
                (i) the demands of stockpile modernization, including 
            the schedule for life extension programs;
                (ii) the requirement for a responsive infrastructure, 
            including the ability to hedge against technical failure 
            and geopolitical risk; and
                (iii) the number of secondaries held in reserve or the 
            inactive stockpile, and the likelihood such secondaries may 
            be reused.
            (E) The proposed timeframe for achieving such 50 to 80 
        secondaries per year production requirement.
        (3) Form.--The report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in 
    unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1647. CERTIFICATION ON NUCLEAR FORCE STRUCTURE.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in coordination with the 
Commander of the United States Strategic Command, shall certify to the 
congressional defense committees that the plan for implementation of 
the New START Treaty (as defined in section 494(a)(2)(D) of title 10, 
United States Code) announced on April 8, 2014, will enable the United 
States to meet its obligations under such treaty in a manner that 
ensures the nuclear forces of the United States--
        (1) are capable, survivable, and balanced; and
        (2) maintain strategic stability, deterrence and extended 
    deterrence, and allied assurance.
SEC. 1648. ADVANCE NOTICE AND REPORTS ON B61 LIFE EXTENSION PROGRAM.
    (a) Notification and Reports.--Not later than 30 days before any 
decision is made to reduce the number of final production units for the 
B61 life extension program below the total number of such units planned 
in the stockpile stewardship and management plan required by section 
4203 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2523) for fiscal year 
2015--
        (1) the Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons Council established 
    under section 179 of title 10, United States Code, shall submit to 
    the congressional defense committees a report that includes--
            (A) a notification of such decision;
            (B) an explanation of the proposed changes to the life 
        extension program; and
            (C) a comprehensive discussion of the justification for 
        such changes; and
        (2) the Commander of the United States Strategic Command shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees a report that 
    includes--
            (A) an assessment of such changes to the life extension 
        program;
            (B) a description of the risks associated with such 
        decision;
            (C) an assessment of the impact of such decision on the 
        ability of the United States Strategic Command to meet 
        deterrence, extended deterrence, and assurance requirements 
        during the expected lifetime of the B61-12 bomb; and
            (D) such other matters as the Commander considers 
        appropriate.
    (b) Form of Reports.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1649. NOTIFICATION AND REPORT CONCERNING REMOVAL OR CONSOLIDATION 
OF DUAL-CAPABLE AIRCRAFT FROM EUROPE.
    (a) Notification and Report.--Not later than 90 days before the 
date on which the Secretary of Defense removes or consolidates dual-
capable aircraft of the United States from the area of responsibility 
of the United States European Command, the Secretary shall notify the 
congressional defense committees of such proposed removal or 
consolidation. Such notification shall include a report explaining--
        (1) how such removal or consolidation is in the national 
    security interests of the United States and the allies of the 
    United States, including the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
    Alliance; and
        (2) whether, and in what respects, such proposed removal or 
    consolidation is affected by--
            (A) the armed forces of the Russian Federation continuing 
        to illegally occupy Ukrainian territory;
            (B) the Russian Federation deploying or preparing to deploy 
        its nuclear weapons to Ukrainian territory;
            (C) the Russian Federation not complying with the INF 
        Treaty and other treaties and agreements to which it is a 
        party; and
            (D) the Russian Federation not complying with the CFE 
        Treaty and not lifting its suspension of Russian observance of 
        its treaty obligations.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``CFE Treaty'' means the Treaty on Conventional 
    Armed Forces in Europe, signed at Paris, November 19, 1990, and 
    entered into force July 17, 1992.
        (2) The ``dual-capable aircraft'' means tactical fighter 
    aircraft that can perform both conventional and nuclear missions.
        (3) The term ``INF Treaty'' means the Treaty Between the United 
    States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on 
    the Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range 
    Missiles, commonly referred to as the Intermediate-Range Nuclear 
    Forces (INF) Treaty, signed at Washington, December 8, 1987, and 
    entered into force June 1, 1988.
SEC. 1650. REPORTS ON INSTALLATION OF NUCLEAR COMMAND, CONTROL, AND 
COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS AT HEADQUARTERS OF UNITED STATES STRATEGIC 
COMMAND.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
budget of the President for a fiscal year is submitted to Congress 
pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the Commander 
of the United States Strategic Command shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the installation and 
operation of nuclear command, control, and communications systems 
associated with the construction of the headquarters of the United 
States Strategic Command.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall address, 
with respect to the installation and operation of nuclear command, 
control, and communications systems associated with the construction of 
the headquarters of the United States Strategic Command, the following:
        (1) Milestones and costs associated with installation of 
    communications systems.
        (2) Milestones and costs associated with integrating targeting 
    and analysis planning tools.
        (3) An assessment of progress on the upgrade of systems that 
    existed before the date of the enactment of this Act, such as the 
    Strategic Automated Command and Control System and the MILSTAR 
    satellite communications system, for compatibility with such 
    nuclear command, control, and communications systems.
        (4) Such other information as the Commander of the United 
    States Strategic Command considers necessary to assess adherence to 
    overall cost, scope, and schedule milestones.
    (c) Termination.--The Commander of the United States Strategic 
Command shall not be required to submit a report under subsection (a) 
with the budget of the President for any fiscal year after the date on 
which the Commander certifies to the congressional defense committees 
that all milestones relating to the installation of nuclear command, 
control, and communications systems associated with the construction of 
the headquarters of the United States Strategic Command have been 
completed and such systems are fully operational.
SEC. 1651. REPORT ON PLANS FOR RESPONSE OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TO INF 
TREATY VIOLATION.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report containing a detailed 
description of any steps being taken or planned to be taken by the 
Secretary in response to actions of the Government of the Russian 
Federation in violation of its obligations under the INF Treaty in 
order to reduce the negative impact of such actions on the national 
security of the United States.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include a 
description of any plans to conduct activities relating to the 
research, development, testing, or deployment of potential future 
military capabilities of the United States, including with respect to 
activities to modify, test, or deploy existing military systems, to 
deter or defend against the threat of intermediate-range nuclear force 
systems of Russia if Russia deploys such systems.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) INF Treaty Defined.--In this section, the term ``INF Treaty'' 
means the Treaty Between the United States of America and the Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics on the Elimination of Their Intermediate-
Range and Shorter-Range Missiles, commonly referred to as the 
Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, signed at Washington 
December 8, 1987, and entered into force June 1, 1988.
SEC. 1652. STATEMENT OF POLICY ON THE NUCLEAR TRIAD.
    It is the policy of the United States--
        (1) to operate, sustain, and modernize or replace the triad of 
    strategic nuclear delivery systems consisting of--
            (A) heavy bombers equipped with nuclear gravity bombs and 
        air-launched nuclear cruise missiles;
            (B) land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles equipped 
        with nuclear warheads that are capable of carrying multiple 
        independently targetable reentry vehicles; and
            (C) ballistic missile submarines equipped with submarine 
        launched ballistic missiles and multiple nuclear warheads;
        (2) to operate, sustain, and modernize or replace a capability 
    to forward-deploy nuclear weapons and dual-capable fighter-bomber 
    aircraft;
        (3) to deter potential adversaries and assure allies and 
    partners of the United States through strong and long-term 
    commitment to the nuclear deterrent of the United States and the 
    personnel, systems, and infrastructure that comprise such 
    deterrent; and
        (4) to ensure that the members of the Armed Forces who operate 
    the nuclear deterrent of the United States have the training, 
    resources, and national support required to execute the critical 
    national security mission of the members.
SEC. 1653. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON DETERRENCE AND DEFENSE POSTURE OF THE 
NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION.
    It is the sense of Congress that the United States reaffirms and 
remains committed to the policies enumerated by the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization in the Deterrence and Defense Posture Review, dated 
May 20, 2012, and the Wales Summit Declaration of September 2014, 
including the following statements:
        (1) As stated in the Deterrence and Defense Posture Review:
            (A) ``The greatest responsibility of the Alliance is to 
        protect and defend our territory and our populations against 
        attack, as set out in Article 5 of the Washington Treaty. The 
        Alliance does not consider any country to be its adversary. 
        However, no one should doubt NATO's resolve if the security of 
        any of its members were to be threatened. NATO will ensure that 
        it maintains the full range of capabilities necessary to deter 
        and defend against any threat to the safety and security of our 
        populations, wherever it should arise. Allies' goal is to 
        bolster deterrence as a core element of our collective defense 
        and contribute to the indivisible security of the Alliance.''.
            (B) ``Nuclear weapons are a core component of NATO's 
        overall capabilities for deterrence and defense alongside 
        conventional and missile defense forces. The review has shown 
        that the Alliance's nuclear force posture currently meets the 
        criteria for an effective deterrence and defense posture.''.
            (C) ``The circumstances in which any use of nuclear weapons 
        might have to be contemplated are extremely remote. As long as 
        nuclear weapons exist, NATO will remain a nuclear alliance. The 
        supreme guarantee of the security of the Allies is provided by 
        the strategic nuclear forces of the Alliance, particularly 
        those of the United States; the independent strategic forces of 
        the United Kingdom and France, which have a deterrent role of 
        their own, contribute to the overall deterrence and security of 
        the Allies.''.
            (D) ``NATO must have the full range of capabilities 
        necessary to deter and defend against threats to the safety of 
        its populations and the security of its territory, which is the 
        Alliance's greatest responsibility.''.
            (E) ``NATO is committed to maintaining an appropriate mix 
        of nuclear, conventional, and missile defense capabilities for 
        deterrence and defense to fulfill its commitments as set out in 
        the Strategic Concept. These capabilities, underpinned by 
        NATO's Integrated Command Structure, offer the strongest 
        guarantee of the Alliance's security and will ensure that it is 
        able to respond to a variety of challenges and unpredictable 
        contingencies in a highly complex and evolving international 
        security environment.''.
        (2) As stated in the Wales Summit Declaration:
            (A) ``Deterrence, based on an appropriate mix of nuclear, 
        conventional, and missile defence capabilities, remains a core 
        element of our overall strategy.''.
            (B) ``Arms control, disarmament, and non-proliferation 
        continue to play an important role in the achievement of the 
        Alliance's security objectives. Both the success and failure of 
        these efforts can have a direct impact on the threat 
        environment of NATO. In this context, it is of paramount 
        importance that disarmament and non-proliferation commitments 
        under existing treaties are honoured, including the 
        Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, which is a 
        crucial element of Euro-Atlantic security. In that regard, 
        Allies call on Russia to preserve the viability of the INF 
        Treaty through ensuring full and verifiable compliance.''.

                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

SEC. 1661. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR IRON DOME SHORT-RANGE ROCKET 
DEFENSE SYSTEM.
    (a) Availability of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by section 1502 for procurement, Defense-wide, and 
available for the Missile Defense Agency, not more than $350,972,000 
may be provided to the Government of Israel to procure the Iron Dome 
short-range rocket defense system as specified in the funding table in 
section 4102, including for co-production of Iron Dome parts and 
components in the United States by industry of the United States.
    (b) Conditions.--
        (1) Agreement.--Funds described in subsection (a) to produce 
    the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense program shall be available 
    subject to the terms, conditions, and co-production targets 
    specified for fiscal year 2015 in the ``Agreement Between the 
    Department of Defense of the United States of America and the 
    Ministry of Defense of the State of Israel Concerning Iron Dome 
    Defense System Procurement,'' signed on March 5, 2014.
        (2) Certification.--Not later than 30 days prior to the initial 
    obligation of funds described in subsection (a), the Director of 
    the Missile Defense Agency and the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall jointly submit to the 
    congressional defense committees--
            (A) a certification that the agreement specified in 
        paragraph (1) is being implemented as provided in such 
        agreement; and
            (B) an assessment detailing any risks relating to the 
        implementation of such agreement.
SEC. 1662. TESTING AND ASSESSMENT OF MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS PRIOR TO 
PRODUCTION AND DEPLOYMENT.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) it is a high priority of the United States that the 
    ballistic missile defense system should work in an operationally 
    effective and cost-effective manner;
        (2) prior to making final production decisions for such 
    systems, and prior to the operational deployment of such systems, 
    the United States should conduct operationally realistic intercept 
    flight testing that should create sufficiently challenging 
    operational conditions to establish confidence that such systems 
    will work in an operationally effective and cost-effective manner 
    when needed; and
        (3) in order to achieve these objectives, and to avoid post-
    production and post-deployment problems, it is essential for the 
    Department of Defense to follow a ``fly before you buy'' approach 
    to adequately test and assess the elements of the ballistic missile 
    defense system before final production decisions or operational 
    deployment.
    (b) Successful Testing Required Prior to Final Production or 
Operational Deployment.--The Secretary of Defense may not make a final 
production decision for, or operationally deploy, a covered system 
unless--
        (1) the Secretary ensures that--
            (A) sufficient and operationally realistic testing of the 
        covered system is conducted to assess the performance of the 
        covered system in order to inform a final production decision 
        or an operational deployment decision; and
            (B) the results of such testing have demonstrated a high 
        probability that the covered system--
                (i) will work in an operationally effective manner; and
                (ii) has the ability to accomplish the intended mission 
            of the covered system;
        (2) the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation has carried 
    out subsection (c) with respect to such covered system; and
        (3) the Commander of the United States Strategic Command has 
    carried out subsection (d) with respect to such covered system.
    (c) Assessment by Director of Operational Test and Evaluation.--The 
Director of Operational Test and Evaluation shall--
        (1) provide to the Secretary the assessment of the Director, 
    based on the available test data, of the sufficiency, adequacy, and 
    results of the testing of each covered system, including an 
    assessment of whether the covered system will be sufficiently 
    effective, suitable, and survivable when needed; and
        (2) submit to the congressional defense committees a written 
    summary of such assessment.
    (d) Assessment by Commander of United States Strategic Command.--
The Commander of the United States Strategic Command shall--
        (1) provide to the Secretary a military utility assessment of 
    the operational utility of each covered system; and
        (2) not later than 30 days after providing such assessment to 
    the Secretary, submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    written summary of such assessment.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to alter, modify, or otherwise affect a determination of the 
Secretary with respect to the participation of the Missile Defense 
Agency in the Joint Capabilities Integration Development System or the 
acquisition reporting process under the Department of Defense Directive 
5000 series.
    (f) Covered System.--In this section, the term ``covered system'' 
means a new or substantially upgraded interceptor or weapon system of 
the ballistic missile defense system, other than the re-designed exo-
atmospheric kill vehicle covered by the acquisition plan developed 
under section 1663.
SEC. 1663. ACQUISITION PLAN FOR RE-DESIGNED EXO-ATMOSPHERIC KILL 
VEHICLE.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the existing models of the exo-atmospheric kill vehicle of 
    the ground-based midcourse defense system are prototype designs 
    that were developed and deployed without using traditional 
    acquisition practices in order to provide an initial defensive 
    capability for an emerging ballistic missile threat;
        (2) consequently, while the deployed models of the exo-
    atmospheric kill vehicle have demonstrated an initial level of 
    capability against a limited threat, such models do not have the 
    degree of reliability, robustness, cost effectiveness, and 
    performance that are desirable;
        (3) the exo-atmospheric kill vehicle for the ground-based 
    midcourse defense system needs to be re-designed to substantially 
    improve the performance and reliability of such kill vehicles; and
        (4) the Secretary of Defense should follow a robust and 
    rigorous acquisition plan for the design, development, and testing 
    of the re-designed exo-atmospheric kill vehicle.
    (b) Acquisition Plan Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
develop an acquisition plan for the re-design of the exo-atmospheric 
kill vehicle of the ground-based midcourse defense system that includes 
rigorous elements for system engineering, design, integration, 
development, testing, and evaluation.
    (c) Objectives.--The objectives of the acquisition plan under 
subsection (b) shall be to ensure that the re-designed exo-atmospheric 
kill vehicle is operationally effective, reliable, producible, cost 
effective, maintainable, and testable.
    (d) Approval of Acquisition Plan Required.--The acquisition plan 
under subsection (b) shall be subject to approval by the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
    (e) Testing Required.--Prior to operational deployment of the re-
designed exo-atmospheric kill vehicle, the Secretary shall ensure that 
the re-designed kill vehicle has demonstrated, through successful, 
operationally realistic flight testing--
        (1) a high probability of working in an operationally effective 
    manner; and
        (2) the ability to accomplish the intended mission of the re-
    designed kill vehicle, including against more complex emerging 
    ballistic missile threats.
    (f) Report Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date on 
which the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
Logistics approves the acquisition plan under subsection (d), the 
Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report describing the acquisition 
plan and the manner in which the plan will meet the objectives 
described in subsection (c).
SEC. 1664. STUDY ON TESTING PROGRAM OF GROUND-BASED MIDCOURSE MISSILE 
DEFENSE SYSTEM.
    (a) Study.-- Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall enter into a 
contract with a federally funded research and development center to 
conduct a study on the testing program of the ground-based midcourse 
missile defense system.
    (b) Elements.--The study under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) An assessment of whether the testing program described in 
    subsection (a) has established, as of the date of the study, that 
    the ground-based midcourse missile defense system has a high 
    probability of performing reliably and effectively against limited 
    missile threats from North Korea and Iran under realistic 
    operational conditions, including an explanation of the degree of 
    confidence supporting such assessment.
        (2) An assessment of whether the currently planned testing 
    program, if implemented, is sufficient to establish reasonable 
    confidence that the ground-based midcourse missile defense system 
    has a high probability of performing reliably and effectively under 
    realistic operational conditions against current and plausible 
    near- and medium-term limited ballistic missile threats from North 
    Korea and Iran.
        (3) Any recommendations for improvements that could be made to 
    the testing program to--
            (A) achieve reasonable confidence that the system would be 
        reliable and effective under realistic operational conditions; 
        or
            (B) improve test and cost efficiencies.
    (c) Report.--Not later than one year after entering into the 
contract under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report containing the study. The 
report shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
classified annex.
SEC. 1665. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND REPORT ON HOMELAND BALLISTIC MISSILE 
DEFENSE.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) it is a national priority to defend the United States 
    homeland against the threat of limited ballistic missile attack 
    (whether accidental, unauthorized, or deliberate);
        (2) although the currently deployed ground-based midcourse 
    defense system provides a level of protection of the entire United 
    States homeland, including the East Coast, against the threat of 
    limited ballistic missile attack from North Korea and Iran, this 
    capability needs to be improved to meet evolving ballistic missile 
    threats;
        (3) the initial step in this process of improvement is to 
    correct the problems that caused the flight test failures with the 
    current kill vehicles, and to improve the reliability of the 
    deployed ground-based interceptor fleet;
        (4) as indicated by senior officials of the Department of 
    Defense, continued investments to enhance homeland defense sensor 
    and discrimination capabilities are essential to improve the 
    operational effectiveness and shot doctrine of the ground-based 
    midcourse defense system;
        (5) given limitations with the currently deployed exo-
    atmospheric kill vehicles, it is important to re-design the exo-
    atmospheric kill vehicle using a rigorous acquisition approach, 
    including realistic testing, that can achieve a demonstrated 
    capability as soon as practicable using sound acquisition 
    principles and practices; and
        (6) in order to stay ahead of evolving ballistic missile 
    threats, the Department should design the next generation exo-
    atmospheric kill vehicle to take full advantage of improvements in 
    sensors, discrimination, kill assessment, battle management, and 
    command and control, including the potential to engage multiple 
    objects.
    (b) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, 
    in coordination with the Commander of the United States Northern 
    Command, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report setting forth the status of current and planned efforts to 
    improve the homeland ballistic missile defense capability of the 
    United States.
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following:
            (A) A detailed description of the current assessment of the 
        threat to the United Sates from limited ballistic missile 
        attack (whether accidental, unauthorized, or deliberate), 
        particularly from countries such as North Korea and Iran, and 
        an assessment of the projected future threat through 2023, 
        including a discussion of confidence levels and uncertainties 
        in such threat assessment.
            (B) A detailed description of the status of efforts to 
        correct the problems that caused the flight test failures of 
        the capability enhancement-I and capability enhancement-II exo-
        atmospheric kill vehicles.
            (C) A detailed description of the status of efforts to 
        field the additional 14 ground-based interceptors planned for 
        deployment at Fort Greely, Alaska, including the status of the 
        refurbishment of Missile Field 1 at Fort Greely, and the 
        operational impact of the additional interceptors.
            (D) A detailed description of the plans and progress toward 
        improving the capability, reliability, and availability of 
        fielded ground-based interceptors, including progress toward 
        improving the capabilities of ground-based interceptors 
        deployed with upgraded capability enhancement-I and capability 
        enhancement-II exo-atmospheric kill vehicles.
            (E) A detailed description of the planned improvements to 
        homeland ballistic missile defense sensor and discrimination 
        capabilities, including through the use of additional sensor 
        systems of the United States, and an assessment of the expected 
        operational benefits of such improvements to homeland ballistic 
        missile defense.
            (F) A detailed description of the plans and efforts to 
        redesign, develop, test, and field the exo-atmospheric kill 
        vehicle for the ground-based midcourse defense system, and an 
        explanation of the expected improvements of such kill vehicle 
        with respect to capability, cost effectiveness, reliability, 
        maintainability, and producibility.
            (G) A detailed description of the plans for developing, 
        testing, and fielding the next generation exo-atmospheric kill 
        vehicle, and an explanation of how the anticipated capabilities 
        are intended to remain ahead of evolving ballistic missile 
        threats.
            (H) A status of efforts on, and goals for, a common kill 
        vehicle with multiple object kill capability, and an 
        explanation of how such capability could keep the missile 
        defense capability of the United States paced ahead of evolving 
        ballistic missile threats.
            (I) A detailed description of the options to improve the 
        homeland ballistic missile defense capability that would 
        respond to the emergence of a long-range ballistic missile 
        threat from Iran, including an evaluation of the potential 
        benefits and drawbacks of--
                (i) the deployment of a missile defense interceptor 
            site on the East Coast;
                (ii) the deployment of a missile defense interceptor 
            site in another location in the United States other than on 
            the East Coast;
                (iii) the deployment of a missile defense interceptor 
            site in a location other than in the United States; and
                (iv) the deployment of additional ground-based 
            interceptors for the ground-based midcourse defense system 
            at Fort Greely, Alaska, or Vandenberg Air Force Base, 
            California, or both.
            (J) Any other matters the Director considers appropriate.
        (3) Form.--The report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in 
    unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1666. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND REPORT ON REGIONAL BALLISTIC MISSILE 
DEFENSE.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the regional ballistic missile capabilities of countries 
    such as Iran and North Korea pose a serious and growing threat to 
    forward deployed forces of the United States, allies, and partner 
    countries;
        (2) given this growing threat, it is a high priority for the 
    United States to develop, test, and deploy effective regional 
    missile defense capabilities to provide the commanders of the 
    geographic combatant commands with capabilities to meet the 
    operational requirements of the commanders, and for allies and 
    partners of the United States to improve their regional missile 
    defense capabilities;
        (3) the United States and its North Atlantic Treaty 
    Organization partners should continue the development, testing, and 
    implementation of phases 2 and 3 of the European Phased Adaptive 
    Approach to defend forward deployed forces of the United States, 
    allies, and partners in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in 
    Europe against the growing regional missile capability of Iran;
        (4) the United States should continue efforts to improve 
    regional missile defense capabilities in the Middle East, including 
    its close cooperation with Israel and its efforts with countries of 
    the Gulf Cooperation Council, in order to improve regional security 
    against the growing regional missile capabilities of Iran; and
        (5) the United States should continue to work closely with its 
    allies in Asia, particularly Japan, South Korea, and Australia, to 
    improve regional missile defense capabilities, particularly against 
    the growing threat from North Korean ballistic missiles.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, in 
coordination with the Commander of the United States Strategic Command, 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Foreign Relations of the Senate a report setting forth the status and 
progress of efforts to improve the regional missile defense 
capabilities of the United States in Europe, the Middle East, and the 
Asia-Pacific region, including efforts and cooperation by allies and 
partner countries.
    (c) Elements.--The report under subsection (b) shall include the 
following:
        (1) A detailed description of the status of implementation 
    (including on the basis of technical development and acquisition of 
    systems and capabilities) of the European Phased Adaptive Approach, 
    including--
            (A) the status of efforts to develop, test, and deploy the 
        capabilities planned for phases 2 and 3 of the European Phased 
        Adaptive Approach;
            (B) a detailed description of the current and projected 
        defended area of each phase of the European Phased Adaptive 
        Approach and the missile defense requirement for the capability 
        provided under each such phase;
            (C) a detailed description of current force structure plans 
        of the United States and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
        associated with the different phases of the European Phased 
        Adaptive Approach at various alert conditions and readiness 
        levels;
            (D) a detailed explanation of the current concept of 
        operations for phase 1 of the European Phased Adaptive Approach 
        and information on phase 2, including--
                (i) the arrangements for allocating the command of 
            assets assigned to the missile defense of Europe between 
            the Commander of the United States European Command and the 
            Supreme Allied Commander, Europe;
                (ii) an explanation of the circumstances under which 
            such command would be allocated to each such commander; and
                (iii) a description of the prioritization of defense of 
            both the deployed forces of the United States and the 
            territory of the member states of the North Atlantic Treaty 
            Organization using available missile defense interceptor 
            inventory;
            (E) an explanation of the concept for the defense of assets 
        of the European Phased Adaptive Approach in the event such 
        assets are targeted by adversaries; and
            (F) an explanation of the development and acquisition of 
        the active layered theater ballistic missile defense system of 
        the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, including the 
        interoperability of such system with the ballistic missile 
        defense system and other command and control systems of the 
        United States.
        (2) A detailed description of the status of efforts to improve 
    the regional missile defense capabilities of the United States and 
    the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council in the Middle East 
    against regional missile threats from Iran, including the progress 
    made toward, and benefits of, multilateral cooperation and data 
    sharing among the countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council with 
    respect to multilateral integrated air and missile defense against 
    threats from Iran.
        (3) A detailed description of the progress of the United States 
    and the allies of the United States in the Asia-Pacific region, 
    particularly Japan, South Korea, and Australia, to improve regional 
    ballistic missile defense capabilities and an assessment of the 
    value of increasing cooperation, information sharing, and 
    opportunities for additional interoperability on a bilateral and 
    multilateral basis.
        (4) A description of how the missile defense acquisitions of 
    allies and partners of the United States, including the acquisition 
    of missile defense technology of the United States, could be 
    optimized to contribute to integrated and networked regional 
    missile defense, including a description of any steps being taken 
    to carry out such optimization.
        (5) A detailed description of--
            (A) the degree of coordination among the commanders of the 
        geographic combatant commands with respect to integrated 
        missile defense planning and operations, including obstacles 
        and opportunities to improving such coordination and integrated 
        capabilities; and
            (B) efforts to integrate offensive and defensive forces, as 
        specified in the ``Joint Integrated Air and Missile Defense 
        Strategy: Vision 2020'' signed by the Chairman of the Joint 
        Chiefs of Staff in December 2013.
        (6) A detailed description of the phased and adaptive elements 
    of the regional missile defense approaches of the United States 
    tailored to the specific regional requirements in the areas of 
    responsibility of the United States Central Command and the United 
    States Pacific Command, including the role of missile defense 
    capabilities of allies and partners of the United States in each 
    region.
        (7) A detailed description of the regional missile defense risk 
    assessment and priorities of the commanders of the geographic 
    combatant commands and a detailed description of the assessed 
    ballistic missile threat facing each geographic combatant command 
    through 2024.
        (8) A detailed explanation of the contributions made by the 
    regional missile defense capabilities of the United States to the 
    defense of the United States.
        (9) Such other matters as the Director considers appropriate.
    (d) Form.--The report required by subsection (b) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

       TITLE XVII--NATIONAL COMMISSION ON THE FUTURE OF THE ARMY

           Subtitle A--Establishment and Duties of Commission

Sec. 1701. Short title.
Sec. 1702. National Commission on the Future of the Army.
Sec. 1703. Duties of the Commission.
Sec. 1704. Powers of the Commission.
Sec. 1705. Commission personnel matters.
Sec. 1706. Termination of the Commission.
Sec. 1707. Funding.

                     Subtitle B--Related Limitations

Sec. 1711. Prohibition on use of fiscal year 2015 funds to reduce 
          strengths of Army personnel.
Sec. 1712. Limitations on the transfer, including preparations for the 
          transfer, of AH-64 Apache helicopters assigned to the Army 
          National Guard.

           Subtitle A--Establishment and Duties of Commission

SEC. 1701. SHORT TITLE.
    This subtitle may be cited as the ``National Commission on the 
Future of the Army Act of 2014''.
SEC. 1702. NATIONAL COMMISSION ON THE FUTURE OF THE ARMY.
    (a) Establishment.--There is established the National Commission on 
the Future of the Army (in this subtitle referred to as the 
``Commission'').
    (b) Membership.--
        (1) Composition.--The Commission shall be composed of eight 
    members, of whom--
            (A) four shall be appointed by the President;
            (B) one shall be appointed by the Chairman of the Committee 
        on Armed Services of the Senate;
            (C) one shall be appointed by the Ranking Member of the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
            (D) one shall be appointed by the Chairman of the Committee 
        on Armed Services of the House of Representatives; and
            (E) one shall be appointed by the Ranking Member of the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
        (2) Appointment date.--The appointments of the members of the 
    Commission shall be made not later than 90 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act.
        (3) Effect of lack of appointment by appointment date.--If one 
    or more appointments under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) is not 
    made by the appointment date specified in paragraph (2), the 
    authority to make such appointment or appointments shall expire, 
    and the number of members of the Commission shall be reduced by the 
    number equal to the number of appointments so not made. If an 
    appointment under subparagraph (B), (C), (D), or (E) of paragraph 
    (1) is not made by the appointment date specified in paragraph (2), 
    the authority to make an appointment under such subparagraph shall 
    expire, and the number of members of the Commission shall be 
    reduced by the number equal to the number otherwise appointable 
    under such subparagraph.
        (4) Expertise.--In making appointments under this subsection, 
    consideration should be given to individuals with expertise in 
    national and international security policy and strategy, military 
    forces capability, force structure design, organization, and 
    employment, and reserve forces policy.
    (c) Period of Appointment; Vacancies.--Members shall be appointed 
for the life of the Commission. Any vacancy in the Commission shall not 
affect its powers, but shall be filled in the same manner as the 
original appointment.
    (d) Chair and Vice Chair.--The Commission shall select a Chair and 
Vice Chair from among its members.
    (e) Initial Meeting.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
which all members of the Commission have been appointed, the Commission 
shall hold its initial meeting.
    (f) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chair.
    (g) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Commission shall 
constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.
SEC. 1703. DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
    (a) Study on Structure of the Army.--
        (1) In general.--The Commission shall undertake a comprehensive 
    study of the structure of the Army, and policy assumptions related 
    to the size and force mixture of the Army, in order--
            (A) to make an assessment of the size and force mixture of 
        the active component of the Army and the reserve components of 
        the Army; and
            (B) to make recommendations on the modifications, if any, 
        of the structure of the Army related to current and anticipated 
        mission requirements for the Army at acceptable levels of 
        national risk and in a manner consistent with available 
        resources and anticipated future resources.
        (2) Considerations.--In undertaking the study required by 
    subsection (a), the Commission shall give particular consideration 
    to the following:
            (A) An evaluation and identification of a structure for the 
        Army that--
                (i) has the depth and scalability to meet current and 
            anticipated requirements of the combatant commands;
                (ii) achieves cost-efficiency between the regular and 
            reserve components of the Army, manages military risk, 
            takes advantage of the strengths and capabilities of each, 
            and considers fully burdened lifecycle costs;
                (iii) ensures that the regular and reserve components 
            of the Army have the capacity needed to support current and 
            anticipated homeland defense and disaster assistance 
            missions in the United States;
                (iv) provides for sufficient numbers of regular members 
            of the Army to provide a base of trained personnel from 
            which the personnel of the reserve components of the Army 
            could be recruited;
                (v) maintains a peacetime rotation force to avoid 
            exceeding operational tempo goals of 1:2 for active members 
            of the Army and 1:5 for members of the reserve components 
            of the Army; and
                (vi) manages strategic and operational risk by making 
            tradeoffs among readiness, efficiency, effectiveness, 
            capability, and affordability.
            (B) An evaluation and identification of force generation 
        policies for the Army with respect to size and force mixture in 
        order to fulfill current and anticipated mission requirements 
        for the Army in a manner consistent with available resources 
        and anticipated future resources, including policies in 
        connection with--
                (i) readiness;
                (ii) training;
                (iii) equipment;
                (iv) personnel; and
                (v) maintenance of the reserve components as an 
            operational reserve in order to maintain as much as 
            possible the level of expertise and experience developed 
            since September 11, 2001.
            (C) An identification and evaluation of the distribution of 
        responsibility and authority for the allocation of Army 
        National Guard personnel and force structure to the States and 
        territories.
            (D) An identification and evaluation of the strategic basis 
        or rationale, analytical methods, and decision-making processes 
        for the allocation of Army National Guard personnel and force 
        structure to the States and territories.
    (b) Study on Transfer of Certain Aircraft.--
        (1) In general.--The Commission shall also conduct a study of a 
    transfer of Army National Guard AH-64 Apache aircraft from the Army 
    National Guard to the regular Army.
        (2) Considerations.--In conducting the study required by 
    paragraph (1), the Commission shall consider the factors specified 
    in subsection (a)(2).
    (c) Report.--Not later than February 1, 2016, the Commission shall 
submit to the President and the congressional defense committees a 
report setting forth a detailed statement of the findings and 
conclusions of the Commission as a result of the studies required by 
subsections (a) and (b), together with its recommendations for such 
legislative and administrative actions as the Commission considers 
appropriate in light of the results of the studies.
SEC. 1704. POWERS OF THE COMMISSION.
    (a) Hearings.--The Commission may hold such hearings, sit and act 
at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such 
evidence as the Commission considers advisable to carry out its duties 
under this subtitle.
    (b) Information From Federal Agencies.--The Commission may secure 
directly from any Federal department or agency such information as the 
Commission considers necessary to carry out its duties under this 
subtitle. Upon request of the Chair of the Commission, the head of such 
department or agency shall furnish such information to the Commission.
    (c) Postal Services.--The Commission may use the United States 
mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other 
departments and agencies of the Federal Government.
SEC. 1705. COMMISSION PERSONNEL MATTERS.
    (a) Compensation of Members.--Each member of the Commission who is 
not an officer or employee of the Federal Government may be compensated 
at a rate not to exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate of 
$155,400 for each day (including travel time) during which such member 
is engaged in the performance of the duties of the Commission. All 
members of the Commission who are officers or employees of the United 
States shall serve without compensation in addition to that received 
for their services as officers or employees of the United States.
    (b) Travel Expenses.--The members of the Commission shall be 
allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at 
rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of 
chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes 
or regular places of business in the performance of services for the 
Commission.
    (c) Staff.--
        (1) In general.--The Chair of the Commission may, without 
    regard to the civil service laws and regulations, appoint and 
    terminate an executive director and such other additional personnel 
    as may be necessary to enable the Commission to perform its duties. 
    The employment of an executive director shall be subject to 
    confirmation by the Commission.
        (2) Compensation.--The Chair of the Commission may fix the 
    compensation of the executive director and other personnel without 
    regard to chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, 
    United States Code, relating to classification of positions and 
    General Schedule pay rates, except that the rate of pay for the 
    executive director and other personnel may not exceed the rate 
    payable for level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of 
    such title.
    (d) Detail of Government Employees.--Any Federal Government 
employee may be detailed to the Commission without reimbursement, and 
such detail shall be without interruption or loss of civil service 
status or privilege.
    (e) Procurement of Temporary and Intermittent Services.--The Chair 
of the Commission may procure temporary and intermittent services under 
section 3109(b) of title 5, United States Code, at rates for 
individuals which do not exceed the daily equivalent of the annual rate 
of basic pay prescribed for level V of the Executive Schedule under 
section 5316 of such title.
SEC. 1706. TERMINATION OF THE COMMISSION.
    The Commission shall terminate 90 days after the date on which the 
Commission submits its report under this subtitle.
SEC. 1707. FUNDING.
    Amounts authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015 by 
section 301 and available for operation and maintenance for the Army as 
specified in the funding table in section 4301 may be available for the 
activities of the Commission under this subtitle.

                    Subtitle B--Related Limitations

SEC. 1711. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FISCAL YEAR 2015 FUNDS TO REDUCE 
STRENGTHS OF ARMY PERSONNEL.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2015 for the Army may be used to reduce Army 
personnel below the end strength authorizations for personnel of the 
Army specified in section 401(1) for active duty personnel and section 
411 for Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components of the 
Army.
SEC. 1712. LIMITATIONS ON THE TRANSFER, INCLUDING PREPARATIONS FOR THE 
TRANSFER, OF AH-64 APACHE HELICOPTERS ASSIGNED TO THE ARMY NATIONAL 
GUARD.
    (a) Prohibition on Transfers During Fiscal Year 2015.--During 
fiscal year 2015, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the 
Army may not transfer any AH-64 Apache helicopters from the Army 
National Guard to the regular Army.
    (b) Additional Limitation on Aircraft or Personnel Transfers and 
Related Activities.--In addition to the prohibition on transfers 
imposed by subsection (a), but subject to the exceptions provided in 
subsection (e), the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the Army 
may not, before March 31, 2016--
        (1) divest, retire, or transfer, or prepare to divest, retire, 
    or transfer, any AH-64 Apache helicopters from the Army National 
    Guard to the regular Army; or
        (2) reduce personnel related to any AH-64 Apache helicopters of 
    the Army National Guard below the levels of such personnel as of 
    September 30, 2014.
    (c) Continued Readiness of Aircraft and Personnel.--The Secretary 
of the Army shall ensure the continuing readiness of AH-64 Apache 
helicopters during fiscal year 2015 as necessary to meet the 
requirements of combatant commanders.
    (d) Effect on Personnel Actions and Training.--Notwithstanding the 
prohibition imposed by subsection (a), the limitation imposed by 
subsection (b), and the duty imposed by subsection (c), the Secretary 
of the Army may--
        (1) carry out any personnel action, as determined to be 
    appropriate by the Secretary, necessary to support Army aviation 
    readiness and operations;
        (2) conduct qualification and reclassification training for 
    pilots, crew, and military occupational specialties related to Army 
    Aviation; and
        (3) continue flight training and advanced qualification courses 
    for selected National Guard personnel related to AH-64 Apache 
    helicopters in accordance with Army readiness requirements.
    (e) Exceptions.--Subject to the Secretary of Defense certification 
required by subsection (f), the Secretary of the Army may--
        (1) during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of 
    this Act and ending on March 31, 2016, make preparations for the 
    transfer of not more than 48 AH-64 Apache helicopters from the Army 
    National Guard to the regular Army; and
        (2) during the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending 
    on March 31, 2016, transfer not more than 48 AH-64 Apache 
    helicopters from the Army National Guard to the regular Army.
    (f) Certification Required.--The certification referred to in 
subsection (e) is a certification by the Secretary of Defense in 
writing to the congressional defense committees that the commencement 
of preparations to transfer AH-64 Apache helicopters pursuant to the 
exception provided by subsection (e)(1) or a transfer of AH-64 Apache 
helicopters pursuant to the exception provided by subsection (e)(2) 
would not create unacceptable risk--
        (1) to the strategic depth or regeneration capacities of the 
    Army; and
        (2) to the Army National Guard in its role as the combat 
    reserve of the Army.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.
    This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015''.
SEC. 2002. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE 
SPECIFIED BY LAW.
    (a) Expiration of Authorizations After Three Years.--Except as 
provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained in titles XXI 
through XXVII and title XXIX of this division for military construction 
projects, land acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and 
contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security 
Investment Program (and authorizations of appropriations therefor) 
shall expire on the later of--
        (1) October 1, 2017; or
        (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for 
    military construction for fiscal year 2018.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to authorizations 
for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing 
projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of 
appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have been 
obligated before the later of--
        (1) October 1, 2017; or
        (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for 
    fiscal year 2018 for military construction projects, land 
    acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or 
    contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security 
    Investment Program.

                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2104. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2004 project.
Sec. 2105. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2013 projects.
Sec. 2106. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2011 
          project.
Sec. 2107. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2012 
          projects.
Sec. 2108. Limitation on construction of cadet barracks at United States 
          Military Academy, New York.
Sec. 2109. Limitation on funding for family housing construction at Camp 
          Walker, Republic of Korea.
SEC. 2101. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                     Army: Inside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    Installation or
             State                     Location              Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
California....................  Concord...............       $15,200,000
                                Fort Irwin............       $45,000,000
Colorado......................  Fort Carson...........       $89,000,000
Hawaii........................  Fort Shafter..........      $311,400,000
Kentucky......................  Blue Grass Army Depot.       $15,000,000
                                Fort Campbell.........       $23,000,000
New York......................  Fort Drum.............       $27,000,000
Pennsylvania..................  Letterkenny Army Depot       $16,000,000
South Carolina................  Fort Jackson..........       $52,000,000
Texas.........................  Fort Hood.............       $46,000,000
Virginia......................  Fort Lee..............       $86,000,000
                                Joint Base Langley-           $7,700,000
                                 Eustis...............
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out the military construction 
project for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                     Army: Outside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Country             Installation or Location       Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Guantanamo Bay...............  Guantanamo Bay..........      $23,800,000
Japan........................  Kadena Air Base.........      $10,600,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2102. FAMILY HOUSING.
    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and 
available for military family housing functions as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may construct 
or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and 
supporting facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number 
of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following table:

                                              Army: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              State/Country                      Installation                    Units                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Illinois................................   Rock Island..............  Family Housing New             $19,500,000
                                                                       Construction.............
Korea...................................  Camp Walker...............  Family Housing New             $57,800,000
                                                                       Construction.............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural 
and engineering services and construction design activities with 
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in 
an amount not to exceed $1,309,000.
SEC. 2103. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, ARMY.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2014, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Army as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2101 of this 
Act may not exceed the sum of the following:
        (1) The total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
    subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
        (2) $226,400,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2101(a) for a Command and Control Facility at Fort Shafter, 
    Hawaii).
        (3) $46,000,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2101(a) for a Simulations Center at Fort Hood, Texas).
        (4) $86,000,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2101(a) for an Advanced Individual Training Barracks 
    Complex, Ph 3, at Fort Lee, Virginia).
        (5) $6,000,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2119) 
    for cadet barracks at the United States Military Academy, New 
    York).
        (6) $78,000,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 
    2119), as amended by section 2105(d) of this Act, for a Secure 
    Administration/Operations Facility at Fort Belvoir, Virginia).
SEC. 2104. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2004 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2004 (division B of Public Law 108-136; 117 Stat. 1697) for Picatinny 
Arsenal, New Jersey, for construction of an Explosives Research and 
Development Loading Facility at the installation, the Secretary of the 
Army may use available unobligated balances of amounts appropriated for 
military construction for the Army to complete work on the project 
within the scope specified for the project in the justification data 
provided to Congress as part of the request for authorization of the 
project.
SEC. 2105. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2013 PROJECTS.
    (a) Fort Drum.--
        (1) In general.--In executing the authorization contained in 
    the table in section 2101(a) of the Military Construction 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 
    112-239; 126 Stat. 2119) for Fort Drum, New York, for construction 
    of an Aircraft Maintenance Hangar at the installation, the 
    Secretary of the Army may provide a capital contribution to a 
    public or private utility company in order for the utility company 
    to extend the utility company's gas line to the installation 
    boundary.
        (2) No change in scope.--The capital contribution under 
    subsection (a) shall not be construed as a change in the scope of 
    work under section 2853 of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Fort Leonard Wood.--In the case of the authorization contained 
in the table in section 2101(a) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-
239; 126 Stat. 2119) for Fort Leonard Wood, Missouri, for construction 
of Battalion Complex Facilities at the installation, the Secretary of 
the Army may construct the Battalion Headquarters with classrooms for a 
unit other than a Global Defense Posture Realignment unit.
    (c) Fort McNair.--In the case of the authorization contained in the 
table in section 2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2119) 
for Fort McNair, District of Columbia, for construction of a Vehicle 
Storage Building at the installation, the Secretary of the Army may 
construct up to 20,227 square feet of vehicle storage.
    (d) Fort Belvoir.--The table in section 2101(a) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of 
Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2119) is amended in the item relating to 
Fort Belvoir, Virginia, by striking ``$94,000,000'' in the amount 
column and inserting ``$172,000,000''.
SEC. 2106. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2011 
PROJECT.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (division B of 
Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4436), the authorization set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 of that Act (124 
Stat. 4437) and extended by section 2109 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of Public Law 113-
66; 127 Stat. 988), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2015, or 
the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2016, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                                  Army: Extension of 2011 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 State                    Installation or Location             Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia................................  Fort Benning..............  Land Acquisition..........      $12,200,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2107. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2012 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of 
Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1660), the authorizations set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 of that Act (125 
Stat. 1661), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2015, or the date 
of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
for fiscal year 2016, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) as follows:

                                 Army: Extension of 2012 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  State                    Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia.................................  Fort Benning..............  Land Acquisition..........      $5,100,000
                                          Fort Benning..............  Land Acquisition..........     $25,000,000
North Carolina..........................  Fort Bragg................  Unmanned Aerial Vehicle        $54,000,000
                                                                       Maintenance Hanger.......
Texas...................................  Fort Bliss................  Applied Instruction             $8,300,000
                                                                       Building.................
                                          Fort Bliss................  Vehicle Maintenance            $19,000,000
                                                                       Facility.................
                                          Fort Hood.................  Unmanned Aerial Vehicle        $47,000,000
                                                                       Maintenance Hanger.......
Virginia................................  Fort Belvoir..............  Road and Infrastructure        $25,000,000
                                                                       Improvements.............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2108. LIMITATION ON CONSTRUCTION OF CADET BARRACKS AT UNITED 
STATES MILITARY ACADEMY, NEW YORK.
    No amounts may be obligated or expended for the construction of 
increment 3 of the Cadet Barracks at the United States Military 
Academy, New York, as authorized by section 2101(a) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of 
Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2119), until the Secretary of the Army 
certifies to the congressional defense committees that the Secretary 
intends to award a contract for the renovation of the MacArthur Long 
Barracks at the United States Military Academy concurrent with assuming 
beneficial occupancy of the renovated MacArthur Short Barracks at the 
United States Military Academy.
SEC. 2109. LIMITATION ON FUNDING FOR FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AT 
CAMP WALKER, REPUBLIC OF KOREA.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
for fiscal year 2015 for construction of military family housing units 
at Camp Walker, Republic of Korea, may be obligated or expended until 
30 days following the delivery of the report required under subsection 
(b).
    (b) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2015, the Secretary of 
    the Army, in consultation with the Commander, U.S. Forces-Korea, 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
    future military family housing requirements in the Republic of 
    Korea and potential courses of action for meeting those 
    requirements.
        (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall, 
    at a minimum--
            (A) identify the number of authorized Command Sponsored 
        Families, by location, in the Republic of Korea;
            (B) validate that the number of authorized Command 
        Sponsored Families identified pursuant to subparagraph (A) is 
        necessary for operational effectiveness;
            (C) identify and validate each key and essential Command 
        Sponsored Family billet requiring on-post housing in the 
        Republic of Korea;
            (D) identify and validate the number of authorized Command 
        Sponsored Families in excess of key and essential requiring on-
        post housing in the Republic of Korea;
            (E) identify the number and estimated cost of on-post 
        family housing units required to support the validated 
        requirements;
            (F) contain a plan for meeting the on-post family housing 
        requirements in the Republic of Korea, including the source of 
        funding; and
            (G) contain a prioritized list of planned military 
        construction projects to be funded with Special Measures 
        Agreement funds over the future-years defense plan, including a 
        certification that each proposed project is a higher priority 
        than family housing.

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2205. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2012 projects.
Sec. 2206. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2014 project.
Sec. 2207. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2011 
          projects.
Sec. 2208. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2012 
          projects.
SEC. 2201. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                            Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona.......................................  Yuma...........................................      $16,608,000
California....................................   Bridgeport....................................      $16,180,000
                                                Lemoore........................................      $38,985,000
                                                 San Diego.....................................      $47,110,000
District of Columbia..........................  Naval Support Activity Washington..............      $31,735,000
 Florida......................................   Jacksonville..................................      $30,235,000
                                                Mayport........................................      $20,520,000
Guam                                            Joint Region Marianas..........................      $50,651,000
Hawaii                                          Kaneohe Bay....................................      $53,382,000
                                                 Pearl Harbor..................................       $9,698,000
Maryland......................................   Annapolis.....................................     $120,112,000
                                                Indian Head....................................      $15,346,000
                                                Patuxent River.................................       $9,860,000
Nevada........................................   Fallon........................................      $31,262,000
North Carolina................................  Camp Lejeune...................................      $50,706,000
                                                Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station..........      $41,588,000
Pennsylvania..................................  Philadelphia...................................      $23,985,000
South Carolina................................  Charleston.....................................      $35,716,000
Virginia......................................  Dahlgren.......................................      $27,313,000
                                                Norfolk........................................      $39,274,000
                                                Portsmouth.....................................       $9,743,000
                                                Quantico.......................................      $12,613,000
                                                Yorktown.......................................      $26,988,000
Washington....................................  Bangor.........................................      $13,833,000
                                                Bremerton......................................      $16,401,000
                                                Port Angeles...................................      $20,638,000
                                                Whidbey Island.................................      $24,390,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installation or location outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bahrain Island................................  Southwest Asia..................................     $27,826,000
Djibouti......................................  Camp Lemonier...................................      $9,923,000
Japan.........................................  Iwakuni.........................................      $6,415,000
                                                Kadena Air Base.................................     $19,411,000
                                                Marine Corps Air Station Futenma................      $4,639,000
                                                Okinawa.........................................     $35,685,000
Spain.........................................  Rota............................................     $20,233,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2202. FAMILY HOUSING.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2204(a) and available for military family 
housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, 
the Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural and engineering 
services and construction design activities with respect to the 
construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount not to 
exceed $472,000.
SEC. 2203. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2204(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may improve existing military family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $15,940,000.
SEC. 2204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NAVY.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2014, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Navy as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2201 of this 
Act may not exceed the sum of the following:
        (1) The total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
    subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
        (2) $90,112,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2201(a) for a Center for Cyber Security Studies Building at 
    Annapolis, Maryland).
        (3) $274,099,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2201(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1666) 
    for an explosive handling wharf at Kitsap, Washington).
        (4) $68,196,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2201(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2010 (division B of Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2633) 
    for ramp parking at Joint Region Marianas, Guam.
SEC. 2205. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2012 PROJECTS.
    (a) Yuma.--In the case of the authorization contained in the table 
in section 2201(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1666), for 
Yuma, Arizona, for construction of a Double Aircraft Maintenance 
Hangar, the Secretary of the Navy may construct up to approximately 
70,000 square feet of additional apron to be utilized as a taxi-lane 
using amounts appropriated for this project pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in section 2204 of such Act (125 Stat. 
1667).
    (b) Camp Pendelton.--In the case of the authorization contained in 
the table in section 2201(a) of the Military Construction Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 
1666), for Camp Pendelton, California, for construction of an Infantry 
Squad Defense Range, the Secretary of the Navy may construct up to 
9,000 square feet of vehicular bridge using amounts appropriated for 
this project pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 
2204 of such Act (125 Stat. 1667).
    (c) Kings Bay.--In the case of the authorization contained in the 
table in section 2201(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1666), 
for Kings Bay, Georgia, for construction of a Crab Island Security 
Enclave, the Secretary of the Navy may expand the enclave fencing 
system to three layers of fencing and construct two elevated fixed 
fighting positions with associated supporting facilities using amounts 
appropriated for this project pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2204 of such Act (125 Stat. 1667).
SEC. 2206. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2014 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2201(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2014 (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 989), for Yorktown, 
Virginia, for construction of Small Arms Ranges, the Secretary of the 
Navy may construct 240 square meters of armory, 48 square meters of 
Safety Officer/Target Storage Building, and 667 square meters of Range 
Operations Building using appropriations available for the project 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204 of such 
Act (127 Stat. 990).
SEC. 2207. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2011 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (division B of 
Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4436), the authorizations set forth in 
the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2201 of that Act 
(124 Stat. 4441) and extended by section 2207 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of 
Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 991), shall remain in effect until October 
1, 2015, or the date of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2016, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                                 Navy: Extension of 2011 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              State/Country                Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bahrain.................................  South West Asia...........  Navy Central Command           $89,280,000
                                                                       Ammunition Magazines.....
Guam....................................  Naval Activities, Guam....  Defense Access Roads           $66,730,000
                                                                       Improvements.............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2208. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2012 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of 
Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1660), the authorizations set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2201 of that Act (125 
Stat. 1666), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2015, or the date 
of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 
2016, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                                 Navy: Extension of 2012 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              State/Country                Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California..............................  Camp Pendelton............  North Area Waste Water         $78,271,000
                                                                       Conveyance...............
                                          Camp Pendelton............  Infantry Squad Defense         $29,187,000
                                                                       Range....................
                                          Twentynine Palms..........  Land Expansion............      $8,665,000
Florida.................................  Jacksonville..............  P-8A Hangar Upgrades......      $6,085,000
Georgia.................................  Kings Bay.................  Crab Island Security           $52,913,000
                                                                       Enclave..................
                                          Kings Bay.................  WRA Land/Water Interface..     $33,150,000
Maryland................................  Patuxent River............  Aircraft Prototype             $45,844,000
                                                                       Facility Phase 2.........
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2302. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2303. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2008 project.
Sec. 2304. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2011 
          project.
Sec. 2305. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2012 
          project.
SEC. 2301. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2302(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                   Air Force: Inside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   Installation or
            State                     Location               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska.......................  Clear Air Force               $11,500,000
                                Station.
Arizona......................  Luke Air Force Base...        $26,800,000
Guam.........................  Joint Region Marianas.        $47,800,000
Kansas.......................  McConnell Air Force           $34,400,000
                                Base.
 Massachusetts...............  Hanscom Air Force Base        $13,500,000
Nevada.......................  Nellis Air Force Base.        $53,900,000
New Jersey...................  Joint Base McGuire-Dix-        $5,900,000
                                Lakehurst............
Oklahoma.....................  Tinker Air Force Base.       $111,000,000
Texas........................  Joint Base San Antonio         $5,800,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2302(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out the military 
construction project for the installation or location outside the 
United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
United Kingdom..................................  Royal Air Force Croughton..................        $92,223,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2302. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, AIR FORCE.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2014, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Air Force as specified in 
the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2301 of this 
Act may not exceed the sum of the following:
        (1) The total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
    subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
        (2) $107,000,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2301(a) of the Military Construction Act for Fiscal Year 
    2014 (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 992) for the 
    CYBERCOM Joint Operations Center at Fort Meade, Maryland).
SEC. 2303. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2008 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2301(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2008 (division B of Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 515), for Shaw Air 
Force Base, South Carolina, for base infrastructure at that location, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may acquire fee or lesser real property 
interests in approximately 11.5 acres of land contiguous to Shaw Air 
Force Base for the project using funds appropriated to the Department 
of the Air Force for construction in years prior to fiscal year 2015.
SEC. 2304. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2011 
PROJECT.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (division B of 
Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4436), the authorization set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2301 of that Act (124 
Stat. 4444) and extended by section 2307 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of Public Law 113-
66; 127 Stat. 994), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2015, or 
the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2016, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                               Air Force: Extension of 2011 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 Country                   Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bahrain.................................  Shaikh Isa Air Base.......  North Apron Expansion.....    $45,000,000.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2305. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2012 
PROJECT.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of 
Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1660), the authorizations set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2301 of that Act (125 
Stat. 1670), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2015, or the date 
of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
for fiscal year 2016, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                               Air Force: Extension of 2012 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              State/Country                Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Italy...................................  Sigonella Naval Air         UAS SATCOM Relay Pads and      $15,000,000
                                           Station..................   Facility.................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

                Subtitle A--Defense Agency Authorizations

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized energy conservation projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
Sec. 2404. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2011 
          projects.
Sec. 2405. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2012 
          projects.
Sec. 2406. Limitation on project authorization to carry out certain 
          fiscal year 2015 projects pending submission of report.

          Subtitle B--Chemical Demilitarization Authorizations

Sec. 2411. Authorization of appropriations, chemical demilitarization 
          construction, defense-wide.
Sec. 2412. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2000 project.

               Subtitle A--Defense Agency Authorizations

SEC. 2401. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                 Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona.........................................  Fort Huachuca..............................         $1,871,000
California......................................  Camp Pendelton.............................        $11,841,000
                                                  Coronado...................................        $70,340,000
                                                  Lemoore....................................        $52,500,000
Colorado........................................  Peterson Air Force Base....................        $15,200,000
Georgia.........................................  Hunter Army Airfield.......................         $7,692,000
                                                  Robins Air Force Base......................        $19,900,000
Hawaii..........................................  Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam.............        $52,900,000
Kentucky........................................  Fort Campbell..............................        $18,000,000
Maryland........................................  Fort Meade.................................        $54,207,000
                                                  Joint Base Andrews.........................        $18,300,000
Michigan........................................  Selfridge Air National Guard Base..........        $35,100,000
Mississippi.....................................  Stennis....................................        $27,547,000
Nevada..........................................  Fallon.....................................        $20,241,000
New Mexico......................................  Cannon Air Force Base......................        $23,333,000
North Carolina..................................  Camp Lejeune...............................        $52,748,000
                                                  Fort Bragg.................................        $93,136,000
                                                  Seymour Johnson AFB........................         $8,500,000
South Carolina..................................  Beaufort...................................        $40,600,000
South Dakota....................................  Ellsworth Air Force Base...................         $8,000,000
Texas...........................................  Joint Base San Antonio.....................        $38,300,000
Virginia........................................  Craney Island..............................        $36,500,000
                                                  Defense Distribution Depot Richmond........         $5,700,000
                                                  Fort Belvoir...............................         $7,239,000
                                                  Joint Base Langley-Eustis..................        $41,200,000
                                                  Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Story        $39,588,000
                                                  Pentagon...................................        $15,100,000
CONUS Classified................................  Classified Location........................        $53,073,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Australia.......................................  Geraldton..................................         $9,600,000
Belgium.........................................  Brussels...................................        $79,544,000
Guantanamo Bay..................................  Guantanamo Bay.............................        $76,290,000
Japan...........................................  Misawa Air Base............................        $37,775,000
                                                  Okinawa....................................       $170,901,000
                                                  Sasebo.....................................        $37,681,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2402. AUTHORIZED ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for energy conservation projects inside the United States as specified 
in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may 
carry out energy conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, 
United States Code, for the installations or locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                             Energy Conservation Projects: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                 Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California......................................  Edwards Air Force Base.....................         $4,500,000
                                                  Fort Hunter Liggett........................        $13,500,000
                                                  Vandenberg Air Force Base..................         $2,965,000
Colorado........................................  Fort Carson................................         $3,000,000
Florida.........................................  Eglin Air Force Base.......................         $3,850,000
Georgia.........................................  Moody Air Force Base.......................         $3,600,000
Hawaii..........................................  Marine Corps Base Hawaii...................         $8,460,000
Illinois........................................  Great Lakes Naval Station..................         $2,190,000
Maine...........................................  Portsmouth Naval Shipyard..................         $2,740,000
Maryland........................................  Fort Detrick...............................         $2,100,000
Nebraska........................................  Offutt Air Force Base......................         $2,869,000
Oklahoma........................................  Tinker Air Force Base......................         $3,609,000
Oregon..........................................  Oregon City Armory.........................         $9,400,000
Utah............................................  Dugway Proving Ground......................        $15,400,000
Virginia........................................  Naval Station Norfolk......................        $11,360,000
                                                  Pentagon...................................         $2,120,000
Various Locations...............................  Various Locations..........................        $25,112,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for energy conservation projects outside the United States as specified 
in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may 
carry out energy conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, 
United States Code, for the installations or locations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                             Energy Conservation Projects: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diego Garcia....................................  Naval Support Facility.....................        $14,620,000
Japan...........................................  Fleet Activities Yokosuka..................         $8,030,000
Germany.........................................  Spangdahlem................................         $4,800,000
Various Locations...............................  Various Locations..........................         $5,776,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, DEFENSE AGENCIES.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2013, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of Defense (other than the military 
departments) as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2401 of this 
Act may not exceed the sum of the following:
        (1) The total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
    subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
        (2) $79,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under section 
    2401(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
    Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2128) for 
    NSAW Recapitalize Building #1 at Fort Meade, Maryland).
        (3) $20,800,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2401(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2129) 
    for the Aegis Ashore Missile Defense System Complex at Deveselu, 
    Romania).
        (4) $141,039,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2401(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1672), 
    as amended by section 2404(a) of the Military Construction 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B Public Law 112-
    239; 126 Stat. 2130), for a data center at Fort Meade, Maryland).
        (5) $50,500,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2401(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1672) 
    for an Ambulatory Care Center at Joint Base Andrews, Maryland).
        (6) $54,300,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2401(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1672) 
    for an Ambulatory Care Center at Joint Base San Antonio, Texas).
        (7) $526,168,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2401(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1673) 
    for a hospital at the Rhine Ordnance Barracks, Germany).
        (8) $281,325,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2401(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2010 (division B of Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2640) 
    for a hospital at Fort Bliss, Texas).
        (9) $123,827,000 (the balance of the amount authorized as a 
    Military Construction, Defense-Wide project by title X of the 
    Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32; 123 Stat. 
    1888) for a data center at Camp Williams, Utah).
SEC. 2404. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2011 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (division B of 
Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4436), the authorizations set forth in 
the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2401 of that Act 
(124 Stat. 4446), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2015, or the 
date of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal 
year 2016, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                           Defense Agencies: Extension of 2011 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  State                    Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
District of Columbia....................  Bolling Air Force Base....  Cooling Tower Expansion...      $2,070,000
                                                                      DIAC Parking Garage.......     $13,586,000
                                                                      Electrical Upgrades.......      $1,080,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2405. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2012 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of 
Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1660), the authorizations set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2401 of that Act (125 
Stat. 1672), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2015, or the date 
of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
for fiscal year 2016, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                           Defense Agencies: Extension of 2012 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              State/Country                Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California..............................  Coronado..................  SOF Support Activity           $42,000,000
                                                                       Operations Facility......
Germany.................................  USAG Baumholder...........  Wetzel-Smith Elementary        $59,419,000
                                                                       School...................
Italy...................................  USAG Vicenza..............  Vicenza High School.......     $41,864,000
Japan...................................  Yokota Air Base...........  Yokota High School........     $49,606,000
Virginia................................  Pentagon Reservation......  Heliport Control Tower and      $6,457,000
                                                                       Fire Station.............
                                                                      Pedestrian Plaza..........      $2,285,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2406. LIMITATION ON PROJECT AUTHORIZATION TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
FISCAL YEAR 2015 PROJECTS PENDING SUBMISSION OF REPORT.
    (a) Limitation.--No amounts may be obligated or expended for the 
military construction projects described in subsection (b) and 
otherwise authorized by section 2401(a) until the report described in 
subsection (c) has been submitted to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives.
    (b) Covered Projects.--The limitation imposed by subsection (a) 
applies to the following military construction projects:
        (1) The construction of a human performance center facility at 
    Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Story, Virginia.
        (2) The construction of a squadron operations facility at 
    Cannon Air Force Base, New Mexico.
    (c) Report Described.--The report referred to in subsection (a) is 
the report on the review of Department of Defense efforts regarding the 
prevention of suicide among members of United States Special Operations 
Forces and their dependents required by section 582 of this Act.

          Subtitle B--Chemical Demilitarization Authorizations

SEC. 2411. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, CHEMICAL DEMILITARIZATION 
CONSTRUCTION, DEFENSE-WIDE.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2014, 
for military construction and land acquisition for chemical 
demilitarization, as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under subsection (a) and the 
project described in paragraph (2) of this subsection may not exceed 
the sum of the following:
        (1) The total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
    subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
        (2) $2,049,000 (the balance of the amount authorized for 
    ammunition demilitarization at Blue Grass Army Depot, Kentucky, by 
    section 2401(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2000 (division B of Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 835), 
    as most recently amended by section 2412 of the Military 
    Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (division B 
    Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4450) and section 2412 of this Act.
SEC. 2412. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2000 PROJECT.
    (a) Modification.--The table in section 2401(a) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (division B of 
Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 835), as amended by section 2405 of the 
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002 (division 
B of Public Law 107-107; 115 Stat. 1298), section 2405 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (division B of 
Public Law 107-314; 116 Stat. 2698), section 2414 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (division B of 
Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4697), and section 2412 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (division B of 
Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4450), is amended--
        (1) in the item relating to Blue Grass Army Depot, Kentucky, by 
    striking ``$746,000,000'' in the amount column and inserting 
    ``$780,000,000''; and
        (2) by striking the amount identified as the total in the 
    amount column and inserting ``$1,237,920,000''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2405(b)(3) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (division B of 
Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 839), as amended by section 2405 of the 
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002 (division 
B of Public Law 107-107; 115 Stat. 1298), section 2405 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (division B of 
Public Law 107-314; 116 Stat. 2698), section 2414 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (division B of 
Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4697), and section 2412 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (division B of 
Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4450), is further amended by striking 
``$723,200,000'' and inserting ``$757,200,000''.

   TITLE XXV--NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION SECURITY INVESTMENT 
                                PROGRAM

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.
SEC. 2501. AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program as provided in 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, in an amount not to 
exceed the sum of the amount authorized to be appropriated for this 
purpose in section 2502 and the amount collected from the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization as a result of construction previously 
financed by the United States.
SEC. 2502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATO.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2014, for contributions by the Secretary 
of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, for the 
share of the United States of the cost of projects for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program authorized by 
section 2501 as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

 Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve construction 
          and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 2611. Modification and extension of authority to carry out certain 
          fiscal year 2012 projects.
Sec. 2612. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2013 projects.
Sec. 2613. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2014 project.
Sec. 2614. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2011 
          projects.

 Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606(a) and available for the National Guard 
and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army National Guard locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                           Army National Guard
------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State                      Location              Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Delaware.......................  Dagsboro..............      $10,800,000
Maine..........................   Augusta..............      $32,000,000
Maryland.......................  Havre De Grace........      $12,400,000
Montana........................  Helena................      $38,000,000
New Mexico.....................  Alamogordo............       $5,000,000
North Dakota...................  Valley City...........      $10,800,000
Vermont........................  North Hyde Park.......       $4,400,000
Washington.....................  Yakima................      $19,000,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2602. AUTHORIZED ARMY RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606(a) and available for the National Guard 
and Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army Reserve locations inside the United 
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                              Army Reserve
------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State                      Location              Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
California.....................  Fresno................      $22,000,000
                                 March Air Force Base..      $25,000,000
Colorado.......................  Fort Carson...........       $5,000,000
Illinois.......................  Arlington Heights.....      $26,000,000
Mississippi....................  Starkville............       $9,300,000
New Jersey.....................  Joint Base McGuire-Dix-     $26,000,000
                                  Lakehurst.
New York.......................  Mattydale.............      $23,000,000
Virginia.......................  Fort Lee..............      $16,000,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2603. AUTHORIZED NAVY RESERVE AND MARINE CORPS RESERVE 
CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606(a) and available for the National Guard 
and Reserve as specified in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may 
acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for 
the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve locations inside the United 
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                      Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pennsylvania....................................  Pittsburgh.................................        $17,650,000
Washington......................................  Naval Station Everett......................        $47,869,000
                                                  Whidbey Island.............................        $27,755,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2604. AUTHORIZED AIR NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606(a) and available for the National Guard 
and Reserve as specified in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air 
Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the Air National Guard locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                           Air National Guard
------------------------------------------------------------------------
            State                      Location               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arkansas....................  Fort Smith Municipal           $13,200,000
                               Airport.
 Connecticut................   Bradley International         $16,306,000
                               Airport.
 Iowa.......................   Des Moines Municipal           $8,993,000
                               Airport.
 Michigan...................   W.K. Kellog Regional           $6,000,000
                               Airport.
New Hampshire...............  Pease International Trade      $41,902,000
                               Port.
Pennsylvania................  Horsham Air Guard Station       $5,662,000
                               (Willow Grove)..........
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2605. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606(a) and available for the National Guard 
and Reserve as specified in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air 
Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the Air Force Reserve locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                            Air Force Reserve
------------------------------------------------------------------------
            State                      Location               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona.....................  Davis-Monthan Air Force        $14,500,000
                               Base.
 Georgia....................   Robins Air Force Base...      $27,700,000
North Carolina..............  Seymour Johnson Air Force       $9,800,000
                               Base.
Texas.......................  Forth Worth..............       $3,700,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2606. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2014, 
for the costs of acquisition, architectural and engineering services, 
and construction of facilities for the Guard and Reserve Forces, and 
for contributions therefor, under chapter 1803 of title 10, United 
States Code (including the cost of acquisition of land for those 
facilities), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under sections 2601 through 
2605 of this Act may not exceed the sum of the following:
        (1) The total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
    subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
        (2) $10,800,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2601 for a National Guard Vehicle Maintenance Shop at 
    Dagsboro, Delaware).
        (3) $19,000,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2601 for an Enlisted Barracks, Transient Training at 
    Yakima, Washington).
        (4) $26,000,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2602 for an Army Reserve Center at Arlington Heights, 
    Illinois).
        (5) $9,300,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2602 for an Army Reserve Center at Starkville, 
    Mississippi).

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

SEC. 2611. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
FISCAL YEAR 2012 PROJECTS.
    (a) Kansas City.--
        (1) Modification.--In the case of the authorization contained 
    in the table in section 2602 of the Military Construction 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of Public Law 
    112-81; 125 Stat. 1678), for Kansas City, Kansas, for construction 
    of an Army Reserve Center at that location, the Secretary of the 
    Army may, instead of constructing a new facility in Kansas City, 
    construct a new facility in the vicinity of Kansas City, Kansas.
        (2) Duration of authority.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
    Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 
    (division B of Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1660), the 
    authorization set forth in subsection (a) shall remain in effect 
    until October 1, 2015, or the date of the enactment of an Act 
    authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2016, 
    whichever is later.
    (b) Attleboro.--
        (1) Modification.--In the case of the authorization contained 
    in the table in section 2602 of the Military Construction 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of Public Law 
    112-81; 125 Stat. 1678), for Attleboro, Massachusetts, for 
    construction of an Army Reserve Center at that location, the 
    Secretary of the Army may, instead of constructing a new facility 
    in Attleboro, construct a new facility in the vicinity of 
    Attleboro, Massachusetts.
        (2) Duration of authority.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
    Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 
    (division B of Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1660), the 
    authorization set forth in subsection (a) shall remain in effect 
    until October 1, 2015, or the date of the enactment of an Act 
    authorizing funds for military construction for fiscal year 2016, 
    whichever is later.
SEC. 2612. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2013 PROJECTS.
    (a) Stormville.--In the case of the authorization contained in the 
table in section 2601 of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2133) 
for Stormville, New York, for construction of a Combined Support 
Maintenance Shop Phase I, the Secretary of the Army may instead 
construct the facility at Camp Smith, New York, and build a 53,760 
square foot maintenance facility in lieu of a 75,156 square foot 
maintenance facility.
    (b) Tustin.--In the case of the authorization contained in the 
table in section 2602 of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2135) 
for Tustin, California, for construction of an Army Reserve Center, the 
Secretary of the Army may construct the facility in the vicinity of 
Tustin instead of constructing the facility in Tustin.
SEC. 2613. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2014 PROJECT.
    The table in section 2604 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal year 2014 (division B of Public Law 113-
66; 127 Stat. 1002) is amended in the item relating to Martin State 
Airport, Maryland, for construction of a CYBER/ISR Facility by striking 
``$8,000,000'' in the amount column and inserting ``$12,900,000''.
SEC. 2614. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2011 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (division B of 
Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4436), the authorizations set forth in 
the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 2601 and 2602 of 
that Act (124 Stat. 4452, 4453) and extended by section 2612 of the 
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division 
B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1003), shall remain in effect until 
October 1, 2015, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing 
funds for military construction for fiscal year 2016, whichever is 
later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is a follows:

                       Extension of 2011 National Guard and Reserve Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  State                     Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Puerto Rico.............................  Camp Santiago..............  Multipurpose Machine Gun       $9,200,000
                                                                        Range.....................
Virginia................................  Fort Story.................  Army Reserve Center........   $11,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and 
          closure activities funded through Department of Defense base 
          closure account.

            Subtitle B--Prohibition on Additional BRAC Round

Sec. 2711. Prohibition on conducting additional Base Realignment and 
          Closure (BRAC) round.

                        Subtitle C--Other Matters

Sec. 2721. Modification of property disposal procedures under base 
          realignment and closure process.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 2701. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
CLOSURE ACTIVITIES FUNDED THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE BASE CLOSURE 
ACCOUNT.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2014, for base realignment and closure 
activities, including real property acquisition and military 
construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 
U.S.C. 2687 note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base 
Closure Account established by section 2906 of such Act (as amended by 
section 2711 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2140)), as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601.

            Subtitle B--Prohibition on Additional BRAC Round

SEC. 2711. PROHIBITION ON CONDUCTING ADDITIONAL BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
CLOSURE (BRAC) ROUND.
    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize an additional 
Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.

                       Subtitle C--Other Matters

SEC. 2721. MODIFICATION OF PROPERTY DISPOSAL PROCEDURES UNDER BASE 
REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE PROCESS.
    (a) Report on Excess Property.--Section 2905 of the Defense Base 
Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 
101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) is amended by inserting after subsection 
(e) the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Report on Designation of Property as Excess Instead of 
Surplus.--(1) Not later than 180 days after the date on which real 
property located at a military installation closed or realigned under 
this part is declared excess, but not surplus, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
identifying the property and including the information required by 
paragraph (2). The Secretary shall update the report every 180 days 
thereafter until the property is either declared surplus or transferred 
to another Federal agency.
    ``(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall include the following 
elements:
        ``(A) The reason for the excess designation.
        ``(B) The nature of the contemplated transfer.
        ``(C) The proposed timeline for the transfer.
        ``(D) Any impediments to completing the Federal agency 
    screening process.''.
    (b) Effect of Lack of Recognized Redevelopment Authority.--Section 
2910(9) of the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A 
of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``The term'' and inserting ``(A) The term''; 
    and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(B) If no redevelopment authority referred to in subparagraph 
    (A) exists with respect to a military installation, the term shall 
    include the following:
            ``(i) The local government in whose jurisdiction the 
        military installation is wholly located.
            ``(ii) A local government agency or State government agency 
        designated by the chief executive officer of the State in which 
        the military installation is located under subparagraph (B) of 
        section 2905(b)(3) for the purpose of the consultation required 
        by subparagraph (A) of such section.''.

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing 
                                 Changes

Sec. 2801. Congressional notification of construction projects, land 
          acquisitions, and defense access road projects conducted under 
          authorities other than a Military Construction Authorization 
          Act.
Sec. 2802. Modification of authority to carry out unspecified minor 
          military construction.
Sec. 2803. Clarification of authorized use of payments-in-kind and in-
          kind contributions.
Sec. 2804. Use of one-step turn-key contractor selection procedures for 
          additional facility projects.
Sec. 2805. Limitations on military construction in European Command area 
          of responsibility and European Reassurance Initiative.
Sec. 2806. Extension of temporary, limited authority to use operation 
          and maintenance funds for construction projects in certain 
          areas outside the United States.
Sec. 2807. Application of residential building construction standards.
Sec. 2808. Limitation on construction of new facilities at Guantanamo 
          Bay, Cuba.

         Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

Sec. 2811. Renewals, extensions, and succeeding leases for financial 
          institutions operating on military installations.
Sec. 2812. Deposit of reimbursed funds to cover administrative expenses 
          relating to certain real property transactions.

   Subtitle C--Provisions Related to Asia-Pacific Military Realignment

Sec. 2821. Realignment of Marines Corps forces in Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 2822. Establishment of surface danger zone, Ritidian Unit, Guam 
          National Wildlife Refuge.

                      Subtitle D--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2831. Land conveyance, Gordo Army Reserve Center, Gordo, Alabama.
Sec. 2832. Land conveyance, West Nome Tank Farm, Nome, Alaska.
Sec. 2833. Land conveyance, former Air Force Norwalk Defense Fuel Supply 
          Point, Norwalk, California.
Sec. 2834. Transfer of administrative jurisdiction and alternative land 
          conveyance authority, former Walter Reed Army Hospital, 
          District of Columbia.
Sec. 2835. Land conveyance, former Lynn Haven fuel depot, Lynn Haven, 
          Florida.
Sec. 2836. Transfers of administrative jurisdiction, Camp Frank D. 
          Merrill and Lake Lanier, Georgia.
Sec. 2837. Land conveyance, Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, Hawaii.
Sec. 2838. Modification of conditions on land conveyance, Joliet Army 
          Ammunition Plant, Illinois.
Sec. 2839. Transfer of administrative jurisdiction, Camp Gruber, 
          Oklahoma.
Sec. 2840. Conveyance, Joint Base Charleston, South Carolina.
Sec. 2841. Land exchanges, Arlington County, Virginia.

         Subtitle E--Military Memorials, Monuments, and Museums

Sec. 2851. Acceptance of in-kind gifts on behalf of Heritage Center for 
          the National Museum of the United States Army.
Sec. 2852. Mt. Soledad Veterans Memorial, San Diego, California.
Sec. 2853. Establishment of memorial to the victims of the shooting at 
          the Washington Navy Yard on September 16, 2013.

                        Subtitle F--Designations

Sec. 2861. Redesignation of the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies 
          as the Daniel K. Inouye Asia-Pacific Center for Security 
          Studies.

                        Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 2871. Report on physical security at Department of Defense 
          facilities.

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing 
                                Changes

SEC. 2801. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS, LAND 
ACQUISITIONS, AND DEFENSE ACCESS ROAD PROJECTS CONDUCTED UNDER 
AUTHORITIES OTHER THAN A MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATION ACT.
    Section 2802 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e)(1) If a construction project, land acquisition, or defense 
access road project described in paragraph (2) will be carried out 
pursuant to a provision of law other than a Military Construction 
Authorization Act, the Secretary concerned shall--
        ``(A) comply with the congressional notification requirement 
    contained in the provision of law under which the construction 
    project, land acquisition, or defense access road project will be 
    carried out; or
        ``(B) in the absence of such a congressional notification 
    requirement, submit to the congressional defense committees, in an 
    electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title, a report 
    describing the construction project, land acquisition, or defense 
    access road project at least 15 days before commencing the 
    construction project, land acquisition, or defense access road 
    project.
    ``(2) Except as provided in paragraph (3), a construction project, 
land acquisition, or defense access road project subject to the 
notification requirement imposed by paragraph (1) is a construction 
project, land acquisition, or defense access road project that--
        ``(A) is not specifically authorized in a Military Construction 
    Authorization Act;
        ``(B) will be carried out by a military department, Defense 
    Agency, or Department of Defense Field Activity; and
        ``(C) will be located on a military installation.
    ``(3) This subsection does not apply to a construction project, 
land acquisition, or defense access road project described in paragraph 
(2) whose cost is less than or equal to the threshold amount specified 
in section 2805(b) of this title.''.
SEC. 2802. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT UNSPECIFIED MINOR 
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION.
    (a) Unspecified Minor Military Construction Project Described.--
Subsection (a)(2) of section 2805 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``$2,000,000'' and 
    inserting ``$3,000,000''; and
        (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``$3,000,000'' and 
    inserting ``$4,000,000''.
    (b) Increased Threshold for Application of Secretory Approval and 
Congressional Notification Requirements.--Subsection (b)(1) of such 
section is amended by striking ``$750,000'' and inserting 
``$1,000,000''.
    (c) Maximum Amount of Operation and Maintenance Funds Authorized to 
Be Used for Projects.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended by 
striking ``$750,000'' and inserting ``$1,000,000''.
SEC. 2803. CLARIFICATION OF AUTHORIZED USE OF PAYMENTS-IN-KIND AND IN-
KIND CONTRIBUTIONS.
    (a) Payments-In-Kind and In-Kind Contributions.--Subsection (f) of 
section 2687a of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(f) Authorized Use of Payments-In-Kind and In-Kind 
Contributions.--(1) A military construction project, as defined in 
chapter 159 of this title, may be accepted as payment-in-kind or as an 
in-kind contribution required by a bilateral agreement with a host 
country only if that military construction project is authorized by 
law.
    ``(2) Operations of United States forces may be funded through 
payment-in-kind or an in-kind contribution required by a bilateral 
agreement with a host country under this section only if the costs 
covered by such payment or contribution are included in the budget 
justification documents for the Department of Defense submitted to 
Congress in connection with the budget submitted under 1105 of title 
31.
    ``(3) If funds previously appropriated for a military construction 
project or operating costs are subsequently addressed in an agreement 
for payment-in-kind or by an in-kind contribution required by a 
bilateral agreement with a host country, the Secretary of Defense shall 
return to the Treasury funds in the amount equal to the value of the 
appropriated funds.
    ``(4) This subsection does not apply to a military construction 
project that--
        ``(A) was specified in a bilateral agreement with a host 
    country that was entered into before December 26, 2013;
        ``(B) was the subject of negotiation between the United States 
    and a host country as of the date of the enactment of the Military 
    Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015;
        ``(C) was accepted as payment-in-kind for the residual value of 
    improvements made by the United States at military installations 
    released to the host country under section 2921 of the Military 
    Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (division B of 
    Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) before December 26, 2013; 
    or
        ``(D) subject to paragraph (6), will cost less than the cost 
    specified in subsection (a)(2) of section 2805 of this title for 
    certain unspecified minor military construction projects.
    ``(5) This subsection does not apply to an in-kind contribution 
toward operating costs that--
        ``(A) was specified in a bilateral agreement with a host 
    country that was entered into before December 26, 2013;
        ``(B) was the subject of negotiation between the United States 
    and a host country as of the date of the enactment of the Military 
    Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015; or
        ``(C) was accepted as an in-kind contribution for the residual 
    value of improvements made by the United States at military 
    installations released to the host country under section 2921 of 
    the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 
    (division B of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) before 
    December 26, 2013.
    ``(6) In the case of a military construction project excluded 
pursuant to paragraph (4)(D) whose cost will exceed the cost specified 
in subsection (b) of section 2805 of this title for certain unspecified 
minor military construction projects, the congressional notification 
requirements and waiting period specified in paragraph (2) of such 
subsection shall apply.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 2802(d) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``payment-in-kind 
    contributions'' and inserting ``payments-in-kind or in-kind 
    contributions'';
        (2) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following new 
    paragraph:
    ``(3) This subsection does not apply to a military construction 
project covered by one of the exceptions in section 2687a(f)(4) of this 
title.''; and
        (3) in paragraph (4), by striking ``paragraph (3)(C)'' and 
    inserting ``paragraph (3), by reference to section 2687a(f)(4)(D) 
    of this title,''.
    (c) Congressional Notification.--
        (1) Notification required.--During the period beginning on the 
    date of the enactment of this Act and ending on the effective date 
    specified in subsection (d), the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
    to the congressional defense committees a written notification, at 
    least 30 days before the initiation date for any military 
    construction project to be built for Department of Defense 
    personnel outside the United States using payments-in-kind or in-
    kind contributions.
        (2) Elements of notice.--A written notifications under 
    paragraph (1) shall include the following:
            (A) The requirements for, and purpose and description of, 
        the proposed military construction project.
            (B) The cost of the proposed military construction project.
            (C) The scope of the proposed military construction 
        project.
            (D) The schedule for the proposed military construction 
        project.
            (E) Such other details as the Secretary considers relevant.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the later of--
        (1) September 30, 2016; or
        (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for 
    military construction for fiscal year 2017.
SEC. 2804. USE OF ONE-STEP TURN-KEY CONTRACTOR SELECTION PROCEDURES FOR 
ADDITIONAL FACILITY PROJECTS.
    Section 2862 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
``Sec. 2862. Turn-key selection procedures
    ``(a) Authority to Use for Certain Purposes.--The Secretary 
concerned may use one-step turn-key selection procedures for the 
purpose of entering into a contract for any of the following purposes:
        ``(1) The construction of an authorized military construction 
    project.
        ``(2) A repair project (as defined in section 2811(e) of this 
    title) with an approved cost equal to or less than $4,000,000.
        ``(3) The construction of a facility as part of an authorized 
    security assistance activity.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `one-step turn-key selection procedures' means 
    procedures used for the selection of a contractor on the basis of 
    price and other evaluation criteria to perform, in accordance with 
    the provisions of a firm fixed-price contract, both the design and 
    construction of a facility using performance specifications 
    supplied by the Secretary concerned.
        ``(2) The term `security assistance activity' means--
            ``(A) humanitarian and civic assistance authorized by 
        sections 401 and 2561 of this title;
            ``(B) foreign disaster assistance authorized by section 404 
        of this title;
            ``(C) foreign military construction sales authorized by 
        section 29 of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2769);
            ``(D) foreign assistance authorized under sections 607 and 
        632 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2357, 
        2392); and
            ``(E) other international security assistance specifically 
        authorized by law.''.
SEC. 2805. LIMITATIONS ON MILITARY CONSTRUCTION IN EUROPEAN COMMAND 
AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY AND EUROPEAN REASSURANCE INITIATIVE.
    (a) Extension of Current Limitation on Construction Projects.--
Section 2809 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1013) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``or the Military 
    Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015'' after ``this 
    division''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``the date of the 
    enactment of this Act'' and inserting ``December 26, 2013''.
    (b) Limitation Related to European Reassurance Initiative.--The 
Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department shall 
not award any contract in connection with a construction project 
authorized in title XXIX of this division to be carried out at an 
installation operated in the European Command area of responsibility 
until--
        (1) the Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional 
    defense committees a project notification that--
            (A) includes a completed military construction project data 
        sheet (DD 1391); and
            (B) certifies that a pre-financing statement for eligible 
        projects has been submitted through the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization Security Investment Program; and
        (2) subject to subsection (c), the expiration of the 21-day 
    period beginning on the date the notification is received by the 
    committees or, if earlier, the 14-day period beginning on the date 
    on which a copy of the notification is provided in an electronic 
    medium pursuant to section 480 of title 10, United States Code.
    (c) Relation to Current Limitation on Construction Projects.--The 
limitation imposed by subsection (b) is in addition to the limitation 
on construction projects carried out in the European Command area of 
responsibility imposed by section 2809 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of Public Law 113-
66; 127 Stat. 1013), as amended by subsection (a).
SEC. 2806. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY, LIMITED AUTHORITY TO USE OPERATION 
AND MAINTENANCE FUNDS FOR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS IN CERTAIN AREAS 
OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES.
    Section 2808 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2004 (division B of Public Law 108-136; 117 Stat. 1723), as 
most recently amended by section 2808 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of Public Law 112-
239; 127 Stat. 1012), is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``shall not exceed'' and 
    all that follows through the period at the end and inserting 
    ``shall not exceed $100,000,000 between October 1, 2014, and the 
    earlier of December 31, 2015, or the date of the enactment of an 
    Act authorizing funds for military activities of the Department of 
    Defense for fiscal year 2016.''; and
        (2) in subsection (h)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``December 31, 2014'' and 
        inserting ``December 31, 2015''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``fiscal year 2015'' and 
        inserting ``fiscal year 2016''.
SEC. 2807. APPLICATION OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
    If a residential building project (including repair or remodeling 
project) is authorized by this Act or will be carried out using amounts 
appropriated pursuant to an authorization of appropriations in this Act 
and the project will be designed and constructed to meet an above code 
green building standard or rating system, the Secretary of Defense or 
the Secretary of the military department concerned may use the ICC 700 
National Green Building Standard, the LEED Green Building Standard 
System, the Green Globes Green Building Certification System, or an 
equivalent protocol developed using a voluntary consensus standard, as 
defined in Office of Management and Budget Circular Number A-119.
SEC. 2808. LIMITATION ON CONSTRUCTION OF NEW FACILITIES AT GUANTANAMO 
BAY, CUBA.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for the 
Department of Defense may be used to construct new facilities at 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, until the Secretary of Defense certifies to the 
congressional defense committees that any new construction of 
facilities at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, has enduring military value 
independent of a high value detention mission.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in subsection (a) shall be 
construed as limiting the ability of the Department of Defense to 
obligate or expend available funds to correct a deficiency that is 
life-threatening, health-threatening, or safety-threatening.

        Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

SEC. 2811. RENEWALS, EXTENSIONS, AND SUCCEEDING LEASES FOR FINANCIAL 
INSTITUTIONS OPERATING ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.
    Section 2667(h) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4)(A) Paragraph (1) does not apply to a renewal, extension, or 
succeeding lease by the Secretary concerned with a financial 
institution selected in accordance with the Department of Defense 
Financial Management Regulation providing for the selection of 
financial institutions to operate on military installations if each of 
the following applies:
        ``(i) The on-base financial institution was selected before the 
    date of the enactment of this paragraph or competitive procedures 
    are used for the selection of any new financial institutions.
        ``(ii) A current and binding operating agreement is in place 
    between the installation commander and the selected on-base 
    financial institution.
    ``(B) The renewal, extension, or succeeding lease shall terminate 
upon the termination of the operating agreement described in 
subparagraph (A)(ii) associated with that lease.''.
SEC. 2812. DEPOSIT OF REIMBURSED FUNDS TO COVER ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES 
RELATING TO CERTAIN REAL PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS.
    (a) Authority to Credit Reimbursed Funds to Accounts Currently 
Available.--Section 2695(c) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by striking the first sentence and inserting the following: 
    ``(1) Amounts collected by the Secretary of a military department 
    under subsection (a) for administrative expenses shall be credited, 
    at the option of the Secretary--
        ``(A) to the appropriation, fund, or account from which the 
    expenses were paid; or
        ``(B) to an appropriate appropriation, fund, or account 
    currently available to the Secretary for the purposes for which the 
    expenses were paid.''; and
        (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``Amounts so credited'' 
    and inserting the following:
    ``(2) Amounts credited under paragraph (1)''.
    (b) Prospective Applicability.--The amendments made by subsection 
(a) shall not apply to administrative expenses related to a real 
property transaction referred to in section 2695(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, that were covered by the Secretary of a military 
department using amounts appropriated to the Secretary before the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

  Subtitle C--Provisions Related to Asia-Pacific Military Realignment

SEC. 2821. REALIGNMENT OF MARINES CORPS FORCES IN ASIA-PACIFIC REGION.
    (a) Limitation Based on Cost Estimates.--
        (1) Limitation amount.--Pursuant to the Supplemental 
    Environmental Impact Statement for the ``Guam and Commonwealth of 
    the Northern Mariana Islands Military Relocation (2012 Roadmap 
    Adjustments)'', the total amount obligated or expended from funds 
    appropriated or otherwise made available for military construction 
    for implementation of the Record of Decision for the relocation of 
    Marine Corps forces to Guam associated with such Supplemental 
    Environmental Impact Statement may not exceed $8,725,000,000, 
    subject to such adjustment as may be made under paragraph (2).
        (2) Adjustment of limitation amount.--The Secretary of the Navy 
    may adjust the amount specified in paragraph (1) by the following:
            (A) The amounts of increases or decreases in costs 
        attributable to economic inflation after September 30, 2014.
            (B) The amounts of increases or decreases in costs 
        attributable to compliance with changes in Federal, Guam or 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or local laws 
        enacted after September 30, 2014.
        (3) Written notice of adjustment.--At the same time that the 
    budget for a fiscal year is submitted to Congress under section 
    1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of the Navy 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees written notice 
    of any adjustment to the amount specified in paragraph (1) made by 
    the Secretary during the preceding fiscal year pursuant to the 
    authority provided by paragraph (2).
    (b) Restriction on Development of Public Infrastructure.--
        (1) Restriction.--If the Secretary of Defense determines that 
    any grant, cooperative agreement, transfer of funds to another 
    Federal agency, or supplement of funds available under Federal 
    programs administered by agencies other than the Department of 
    Defense will result in the development (including repair, 
    replacement, renovation, conversion, improvement, expansion, 
    acquisition, or construction) of public infrastructure on Guam, the 
    Secretary of Defense may not carry out such grant, transfer, 
    cooperative agreement, or supplemental funding unless such grant, 
    transfer, cooperative agreement, or supplemental funding--
            (A) is specifically authorized by law; and
            (B) will be used to carry out a public infrastructure 
        project included in the report prepared by the Secretary of 
        Defense under section 2822(d)(2) of the Military Construction 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of Public 
        Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1017), as in effect on the day before the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
        (2) Public infrastructure defined.--In this subsection, the 
    term ``public infrastructure'' means any utility, method of 
    transportation, item of equipment, or facility under the control of 
    a public entity or State or local government that is used by, or 
    constructed for the benefit of, the general public.
    (c) Repeal of Superseded Law.--Section 2822 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of 
Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1016) is repealed. The repeal of such 
section does not affect the validity of the amendment made by 
subsection (f) of such section or the responsibilities of the Economic 
Adjustment Committee and the Secretary of Defense under subsection (d) 
of such section, as in effect on the day before the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
SEC. 2822. ESTABLISHMENT OF SURFACE DANGER ZONE, RITIDIAN UNIT, GUAM 
NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE.
    (a) Agreement to Establish.--In order to accommodate the operation 
of a live-fire training range complex on Andersen Air Force Base-
Northwest Field and the management of the adjacent Ritidian Unit of the 
Guam National Wildlife Refuge, the Secretary of the Navy and the 
Secretary of the Interior, notwithstanding the National Wildlife Refuge 
System Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd et seq.), may enter 
into an agreement providing for the establishment and operation of a 
surface danger zone which overlays the Ritidian Unit or such portion 
thereof as the Secretaries consider necessary.
    (b) Elements of Agreement.--The agreement to establish a surface 
danger zone over all or a portion of the Ritidian Unit of the Guam 
National Wildlife Refuge shall include--
        (1) measures to maintain the purposes of the Refuge; and
        (2) as appropriate, measures, funded by the Secretary of the 
    Navy from funds appropriated after the date of enactment of this 
    Act and otherwise available to the Secretary, for the following 
    purposes:
            (A) Relocation and reconstruction of structures and 
        facilities of the Refuge in existence as of the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (B) Mitigation of impacts to wildlife species present on 
        the Refuge or to be reintroduced in the future in accordance 
        with applicable laws.
            (C) Use of Department of Defense personnel to undertake 
        conservation activities within the Ritidian Unit normally 
        performed by Department of the Interior personnel, including 
        habitat maintenance, maintaining the boundary fence, and 
        conducting the brown tree snake eradication program.
            (D) Openings and closures of the surface danger zone to the 
        public as may be necessary.

                      Subtitle D--Land Conveyances

SEC. 2831. LAND CONVEYANCE, GORDO ARMY RESERVE CENTER, GORDO, ALABAMA.
    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may convey, 
without consideration, to the town of Gordo, Alabama (in this section 
referred to as the ``Town''), all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to a parcel of real property, including any 
improvements thereon, consisting of approximately 3.79 acres and 
containing the Gordo Army Reserve Center located at 25226 Highway 82 in 
Gordo, Alabama, for the purpose of permitting the Town to use the 
parcel for municipal government purposes, including use by municipal 
utilities management, the municipal police department, and municipal 
officials and use as a community center and polling place.
    (b) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary of the Army determines 
at any time that the real property conveyed under subsection (a) is not 
being used in accordance with the purpose of the conveyance specified 
in subsection (a), all right, title, and interest in and to such real 
property, including any improvements thereto, shall, at the option of 
the Secretary, revert to and become the property of the United States, 
and the United States shall have the right of immediate entry onto such 
real property. A determination by the Secretary under this subsection 
shall be made on the record after an opportunity for a hearing.
    (c) Alternative Consideration Option.--
        (1) Consideration option.--In lieu of exercising the 
    reversionary interest under subsection (b), if the Secretary of the 
    Army determines that the property conveyed under subsection (a) is 
    not being used in accordance with the purpose of the conveyance, 
    the Secretary may require the Town to pay to the United States an 
    amount equal to the fair market value of the property, excluding 
    the value of any improvements on the property constructed by the 
    Town, as determined by the Secretary.
        (2) Treatment of consideration received.--Consideration 
    received by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be deposited in 
    the special account in the Treasury established for the Secretary 
    under subsection (e) of section 2667 of title 10, United States 
    Code, and shall be available to the Secretary for the same uses and 
    subject to the same limitations as provided in that section.
    (d) Payment of Cost of Conveyance.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Army shall require 
    the Town to cover costs (except costs for environmental remediation 
    of the property) to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse 
    the Secretary for such costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry 
    out the conveyance under subsection (a), including survey costs, 
    costs for environmental documentation related to the conveyance, 
    and any other administrative costs related to the conveyance. If 
    amounts are collected from the Town in advance of the Secretary 
    incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds the 
    costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the 
    conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the 
    Town.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
    reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or 
    account that was used to cover those costs incurred by the 
    Secretary in carrying out the conveyance or, if the period of 
    availability for obligations for that appropriation has expired, to 
    the appropriations or fund that is currently available to the 
    Secretary for the same purpose. Amounts so credited shall be merged 
    with amounts in such fund or account, and shall be available for 
    the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and 
    limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
    (e) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall 
be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Army.
    (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Army may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
conveyance as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.
SEC. 2832. LAND CONVEYANCE, WEST NOME TANK FARM, NOME, ALASKA.
    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
convey, without consideration, to the City of Nome, Alaska (in this 
section referred to as the ``City'') all right, title, and interest of 
the United States in and to a parcel of real property consisting of 
approximately seven acres, including improvements thereon, known as the 
USAF West Nome Tank Farm, and located adjacent to the City's port 
facilities along Port Road in Nome, Alaska, for the purpose of 
permitting the City to use the property for municipal purposes, 
including municipal office space, port development, fuel storage for 
the municipal power plant, and municipal public utility facilities.
    (b) Interim Lease.--Until such time as the real property described 
in subsection (a) may be conveyed to the City by deed, the Secretary of 
the Air Force may lease, without consideration, all or part of the real 
property to the City for municipal purposes, as described in such 
subsection.
    (c) Reversionary Interest and Alternative Consideration Option.--
        (1) In general.--If the Secretary of the Air Force determines 
    at any time that the real property conveyed or leased to the City 
    under this section is not being used for municipal purposes, then, 
    at the option of the Secretary--
            (A) all right, title, and interest in and to the real 
        property, including any improvement thereto, shall revert to 
        and become the property of the United States, and the United 
        States shall have the right of immediate entry onto the 
        property; or
            (B) the Secretary may require the City to pay the Secretary 
        an amount equal to the then current fair market value of the 
        property, excluding the value of any improvements on the 
        property constructed by the City, as determined by the 
        Secretary.
        (2) Determination process.--A determination by the Secretary 
    under paragraph (1) shall be made on the record after an 
    opportunity for a hearing.
        (3) Treatment of cash payments received.--Any cash payment 
    received by the Secretary under paragraph (1)(B) shall be deposited 
    in the special account in the Treasury established for the 
    Secretary under section 2667(e) of title 10, United State Code, and 
    shall be available to the Secretary for the same uses and subject 
    to the same limitations as provided in that section.
    (d) Payment of Costs.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
    require the City to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or 
    to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the Secretary, to 
    carry out a conveyance or lease under this section, including 
    survey costs, cost for environmental documentation, and other 
    administrative costs related to the conveyance or lease. If amount 
    are collected from the City in advance of the Secretary incurring 
    the actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds the costs 
    actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the conveyance or 
    lease, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the City.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
    reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or 
    account that was used to cover the costs incurred by the Secretary 
    in carrying out the conveyance or lease or, if the period of 
    availability for obligations for that appropriation has expired, to 
    the appropriations or fund that is currently available to the 
    Secretary for the same purpose. Amounts so credited shall be merged 
    with amounts in such fund or account and shall be available for the 
    same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, 
    as amounts in such fund or account.
    (e) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property to be conveyed or leased under this 
section shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary 
of the Air Force.
    (f) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Air 
Force may require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
with a conveyance or lease under this section as the Secretary 
considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
SEC. 2833. LAND CONVEYANCE, FORMER AIR FORCE NORWALK DEFENSE FUEL 
SUPPLY POINT, NORWALK, CALIFORNIA.
    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
convey, without consideration, to the City of Norwalk, California (in 
this section referred to as the ``City''), all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to the real property, including 
any improvements thereon, consisting of approximately 15 acres at the 
former Norwalk Defense Fuel Supply Point for the purpose of permitting 
the City to use the property for public purposes.
    (b) Payment of Cost of Conveyance.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
    require the City to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or 
    to reimburse the Secretary for such costs incurred by the 
    Secretary, to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a), 
    including survey costs, costs for environmental documentation 
    related to the conveyance, and any other administrative costs 
    related to the conveyance. If amounts are collected from the City 
    in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the 
    amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the 
    Secretary to carry out the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund 
    the excess amount to the City.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
    reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or 
    account that was used to cover those costs incurred by the 
    Secretary in carrying out the conveyance or, if the period of 
    availability for obligations for that appropriation has expired, to 
    the appropriations or fund that is currently available to the 
    Secretary for the same purpose. Amounts so credited shall be merged 
    with amounts in such fund or account, and shall be available for 
    the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and 
    limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
    (c) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall 
be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Air 
Force.
    (d) Additional Terms.--The Secretary of the Air Force may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance 
as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the 
United States.
SEC. 2834. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION AND ALTERNATIVE LAND 
CONVEYANCE AUTHORITY, FORMER WALTER REED ARMY HOSPITAL, DISTRICT OF 
COLUMBIA.
    (a) Transfer of Jurisdiction Authorized.--
        (1) Transfer authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may 
    transfer to the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary of 
    State a parcel of real property at former Walter Reed Army Hospital 
    in the District of Columbia consisting of approximately 43.53 acres 
    for the purpose of permitting the Secretary of State to develop a 
    Foreign Missions Center on the property.
        (2) Description of property.--The property authorized for 
    transfer under this subsection includes the following:
            (A) Building 3 (attached parking structure).
            (B) Buildings 19, 21, 22, 25, 26, 29, 29a, 30, 35 
        (residences).
            (C) Building 20 (Mologne House).
            (D) Building 32 (Wagner Physical Fitness Center).
            (E) Building 40 (Army Medical School-Walter Reed Institute 
        of Research).
            (F) Building 41 (Red Cross).
            (G) Building 52 (warehouse and outpatient clinic).
            (H) Building 53 (former post theater).
            (I) Building 54 (The Armed Forces Institute of Pathology 
        Building and former Military Medical Museum).
            (J) Buildings 55 and 56 (Fisher Houses).
            (K) Building 57 (Memorial Chapel).
    (b) Alternative Conveyance Authority.--
        (1) Conveyance for protection of public health, including 
    research.--If the transfer of administrative jurisdiction 
    authorized by subsection (a) does not occur, the Secretary of the 
    Army may convey, without consideration, to an authorized recipient 
    described in paragraph (2) all right, title, and interest of the 
    United States in and a parcel of real property at former Walter 
    Reed Army Hospital consisting of approximately 13.25 acres and 
    containing of the buildings specified in subparagraphs (A), (G), 
    (H), and (I) of subsection (a) for the purpose of permitting the 
    recipient to use the parcel for the protection of public health, 
    including research.
        (2) Authorized recipients.--The conveyance authorized by this 
    subsection may be made to the District of Columbia, a political 
    subdivision or instrumentality of the District of Columbia, a tax-
    supported medical institution, or a hospital or similar institution 
    not operated for profit that has been exempt from taxation under 
    section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
        (3) Reversionary interest.--If the Secretary of the Army 
    determines at any time that real property conveyed under this 
    subsection is not being used in accordance with the purpose of the 
    conveyance specified in paragraph (1), all right, title, and 
    interest in and to such real property, including any improvements 
    thereto, shall, at the option of the Secretary, revert to and 
    become the property of the United States, and the United States 
    shall have the right of immediate entry onto such real property. A 
    determination by the Secretary under this paragraph shall be made 
    on the record after an opportunity for a hearing.
        (4) Payment of costs of conveyance.--
            (A) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Army shall 
        require the recipient of the property under this subsection to 
        cover costs (except costs for environmental remediation of the 
        property) to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse the 
        Secretary for such costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry 
        out the conveyance under this subsection, including survey 
        costs, costs for environmental documentation, and any other 
        administrative costs related to the conveyance. If amounts are 
        collected in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual 
        costs, and the amount collected exceeds the costs actually 
        incurred by the Secretary to carry out the conveyance, the 
        Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the recipient of 
        the property.
            (B) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
        reimbursement under subparagraph (A) shall be credited to the 
        fund or account that was used to cover those costs incurred by 
        the Secretary in carrying out the conveyance. Amounts so 
        credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account, 
        and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to 
        the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or 
        account.
        (5) Relation to other laws.--Section 2905(b) of the Defense 
    Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (title XXIX of Public Law 
    101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) and section 2696 of title 10, United 
    States Code, shall not apply with respect to real property conveyed 
    under this subsection.
    (c) Description of Properties.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property to be transferred or conveyed under 
this section shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the 
Secretary of the Army.
    (d) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Army may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with a 
transfer or conveyance under this section as the Secretary of the Army 
considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
SEC. 2835. LAND CONVEYANCE, FORMER LYNN HAVEN FUEL DEPOT, LYNN HAVEN, 
FLORIDA.
    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Air Force may convey to 
    the City of Lynn Haven, Florida (in this section referred to as the 
    ``City''), all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
    and to a parcel of real property, including improvements thereon, 
    consisting of approximately 144 acres at the former Lynn Haven Fuel 
    Depot in Bay County, Florida.
        (2) Excluded property.--The real property to be conveyed under 
    paragraph (1) shall not include the portion of the former Lynn 
    Haven Fuel Depot authorized to be conveyed by the Secretary to 
    Florida State University by section 2843 of the Military 
    Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (division B of 
    Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 553).
    (b) Consideration.--
        (1) Consideration required.--As consideration for the 
    conveyance under subsection (a)(1), the City shall pay to the 
    United States an amount equal to the fair market value of the real 
    property to be conveyed, as determined by the Secretary of the Air 
    Force.
        (2) Treatment of consideration received.--Consideration 
    received by the Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be deposited in 
    the special account in the Treasury established for the Secretary 
    under subsection (e) of section 2667 of title 10, United States 
    Code, and shall be available to the Secretary for the same uses and 
    subject to the same limitations as provided in that section.
    (c) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property to be conveyed under subsection (a)(1) 
shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the 
Air Force.
    (d) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Air 
Force may require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers 
appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
SEC. 2836. TRANSFERS OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION, CAMP FRANK D. 
MERRILL AND LAKE LANIER, GEORGIA.
    (a) Transfers Required.--
        (1) Camp frank d. merrill.--Not later than September 30, 2015, 
    the Secretary of Agriculture shall transfer to the administrative 
    jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Army for required Army force 
    protection measures certain Federal land administered as part of 
    the Chattahoochee National Forest, but permitted to the Secretary 
    of the Army for Camp Frank D. Merrill in Dahlonega, Georgia, 
    consisting of approximately 282 acres identified in the permit 
    numbers 0018-01.
        (2) Lake lanier property.--In exchange for the land transferred 
    under paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Army (acting through the 
    Chief of Engineers) shall transfer to the administrative 
    jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture certain Federal land 
    administered by the Army Corps of Engineers and consisting of 
    approximately 10 acres adjacent to Lake Lanier at 372 Dunlap 
    Landing Road, Gainesville, Georgia.
    (b) Use of Transferred Land.--
        (1) Camp frank d. merrill.--
            (A) In general.--On receipt of the land under subsection 
        (a)(1), the Secretary of the Army shall--
                (i) continue to use the land for military purposes;
                (ii) maintain a public access road through the land or 
            provide for alternative public access in coordination with 
            the Secretary of Agriculture; and
                (iii) make accommodations for public access and 
            enjoyment of the land, when such public use is consistent 
            with Army mission and force protection requirements.
            (B) Return of jurisdiction.--The land transferred under 
        subsection (a)(1) shall return to the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary of Agriculture, based on the best interests of the 
        United States, if the Secretary of the Army determines that the 
        transferred land is no longer needed for military purposes.
        (2) Lake lanier property.--
            (A) In general.--On receipt of the land under subsection 
        (a)(2), the Secretary of Agriculture shall use the land for 
        administrative purposes.
            (B) Sale of land.--The Secretary of Agriculture may--
                (i) sell or exchange land transferred under subsection 
            (a)(2);
                (ii) deposit the proceeds of a sale or exchange under 
            clause (i) in the fund established under Public Law 90-171 
            (commonly known as the Sisk Act; 16 U.S.C. 484a); and
                (iii) retain the proceeds for future acquisition of 
            land within the Chattahoochee-Oconee National Forest, with 
            the proceeds to remain available for expenditure without 
            further appropriation or fiscal year limitation.
    (c) Use and Occupancy of National Forest System Land.--Use and 
occupancy of National Forest System land by the Department of the Army, 
other than land transferred pursuant to this Act, shall continue to be 
subject to all laws (including regulations) applicable to the National 
Forest System.
    (d) Endangered Species.--
        (1) Critical habitat designation for darters.--Nothing in the 
    transfer required by subsection (a)(1) shall affect the prior 
    designation of land within the Chattahoochee National Forest as 
    critical habitat for the Etowah darter (Etheostoma etowahae) and 
    the Holiday darter (Etheostoma brevistrum).
        (2) Future critical habitat listings and designations.--Nothing 
    in the transfer required by subsection (a)(1) shall affect the 
    operation of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et 
    seq.) for future listing or designations of critical habitat.
    (e) Legal Description and Map.--
        (1) Preparation and publication.--The Secretary of the Army and 
    the Secretary of Agriculture shall publish in the Federal Register 
    a legal description and map of both parcels of land to be 
    transferred under subsection (a).
        (2) Force of law.--The legal description and map filed under 
    paragraph (1) for a parcel of land shall have the same force and 
    effect as if included in this Act, except that the Secretaries may 
    correct errors in the legal description and map.
    (f) Reimbursement of Costs.--The Secretary of the Army shall 
reimburse the Secretary of Agriculture for all costs related to the 
transfer required by subsection (a), including, at a minimum, any costs 
incurred by the Secretary of Agriculture to assist in the preparation 
of the legal description and maps required by subsection (e).
SEC. 2837. LAND CONVEYANCE, JOINT BASE PEARL HARBOR-HICKAM, HAWAII.
    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Navy may convey, 
without consideration, to the Honolulu Authority for Rapid 
Transportation (in this section referred to as the ``Honolulu 
Authority''), all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to a parcel of real property, including any improvements thereon, 
consisting of approximately 1.2 acres at or in the nearby vicinity of 
Radford Drive and the Makalapa Gate of Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam, 
for the purpose of permitting the Honolulu Authority to use the 
property as the location for a rail platform for the public benefit.
    (b) Condition on Use of Revenues.--If the property conveyed under 
subsection (a) is used, consistent with such subsection, for a public 
purpose that results in the generation of revenue for the Honolulu 
Authority, the Honolulu Authority shall agree to use the generated 
revenue only for passenger rail transit purposes by depositing the 
revenue in a fund designated for passenger rail transit use.
    (c) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Navy shall require 
    the Honolulu Authority to cover costs to be incurred by the 
    Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for such costs incurred by 
    the Secretary, to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a), 
    including survey costs, costs for environmental documentation, and 
    any other administrative costs related to the conveyance. If 
    amounts are collected from the Honolulu Authority in advance of the 
    Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected 
    exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out 
    the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the 
    Honolulu Authority.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
    reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or 
    account that was used to cover those costs incurred by the 
    Secretary in carrying out the conveyance. Amounts so credited shall 
    be merged with amounts in such fund or account, and shall be 
    available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions 
    and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
    (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall 
be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Navy.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Navy may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate 
to protect the interests of the United States.
SEC. 2838. MODIFICATION OF CONDITIONS ON LAND CONVEYANCE, JOLIET ARMY 
AMMUNITION PLANT, ILLINOIS.
    Section 2922(c)(2) of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 1996 (division B of Public Law 104-106; 110 Stat. 605), 
as added by section 2842 of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2000 (division B of Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 863), 
is amended in the second sentence by striking ``23 years of operation'' 
and inserting ``38 years of operation''.
SEC. 2839. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION, CAMP GRUBER, 
OKLAHOMA.
    (a) Transfer Authorized.--Upon a determination by the Secretary of 
the Army that the parcel of property at Camp Gruber, Oklahoma, conveyed 
by the war asset deed dated June 29, 1949, between the United States of 
America and the State of Oklahoma, or any portion thereof, is needed 
for national defense purposes, including military training, and that 
the transfer of the parcel is in the best interest of the Department of 
the Army, the Administrator of General Services shall execute the 
reversionary clause in the deed and immediately transfer administrative 
jurisdiction to the Department of the Army.
    (b) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of any real property to be transferred under subsection (a) 
may be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the 
Army.
    (c) Additional Term and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Army may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with a 
transfer under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to 
protect the interests of the United States.
SEC. 2840. CONVEYANCE, JOINT BASE CHARLESTON, SOUTH CAROLINA.
    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
convey to the City of Hanahan (in this section referred to as the 
``City'') all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
a parcel of real property, including any improvements thereon, 
consisting of approximately 53 total acres at Joint Base Charleston, 
South Carolina, for the purpose of accommodating the City's recreation 
needs.
    (b) Consideration.--
        (1) In general.--As consideration for the conveyance under 
    subsection (a), the City shall provide the United States with 
    consideration in an amount that is acceptable to the Secretary, 
    whether by cash payment, in-kind consideration as described under 
    paragraph (2), or a combination thereof.
        (2) In-kind consideration.--In-kind consideration provided by 
    the City under paragraph (1) may include the acquisition, 
    construction, provision, improvement, maintenance, repair, or 
    restoration (including environmental restoration), or combination 
    thereof, of any facilities or infrastructure relating to the needs 
    of Joint Base Charleston, South Carolina, that the Secretary 
    considers acceptable.
        (3) Public benefit conveyance.--A public benefit conveyance may 
    also be used to transfer the property under subsection (a) to the 
    City for public use. The property use must benefit the community as 
    a whole, including use for parks and recreation.
    (c) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
    require the City to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or 
    to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the Secretary, to 
    carry out the conveyance under subsection (a), including survey 
    costs, costs related to environmental documentation, and other 
    administrative costs related to the conveyance. If amounts paid to 
    the Secretary in advance exceed the costs actually incurred by the 
    Secretary to carry out the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund 
    the excess amount to the City.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
    paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the Secretary 
    to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a) shall be credited 
    to the fund or account that was used to cover the costs incurred by 
    the Secretary in carrying out the conveyance. Amounts so credited 
    shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account and shall be 
    available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions 
    and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
    (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall 
be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Air 
Force.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Air 
Force may require such additional terms and conditions in connection 
with the conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers 
appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
SEC. 2841. LAND EXCHANGES, ARLINGTON COUNTY, VIRGINIA.
    (a) Exchanges Authorized.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may convey--
            (A) to Arlington County, Virginia (in this section referred 
        to as the ``County''), all right, title, and interest of the 
        United States in and to one or more parcels of real property, 
        together with any improvements thereon, located south of 
        Columbia Pike and west of South Joyce Street in Arlington 
        County, Virginia; and
            (B) to the Commonwealth of Virginia (in this section 
        referred to as the ``Commonwealth''), all right, title, and 
        interest of the United States in and to one or more parcels of 
        property east of Joyce Street in Arlington County, Virginia, 
        necessary for the realignment of Columbia Pike and the 
        Washington Boulevard-Columbia Pike interchange, as well as for 
        future improvements to Interstate 395 ramps.
        (2) Phasing.--The conveyances authorized by this subsection may 
    be accomplished through a phasing of several exchanges if 
    necessary.
    (b) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyances of real 
property under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall receive--
        (1) from the County, all right, title, and interest of the 
    County in and to one or more parcels of real property in the area 
    known as the Southgate Road right-of-way, Columbia Pike right-of-
    way, and South Joyce Street right-of-way located in Arlington 
    County, Virginia; and
        (2) from the Commonwealth, all right, title, and interest of 
    the Commonwealth in and to one or more parcels of property in the 
    area known as the Columbia Pike right-of-way, and the Washington 
    Boulevard-Columbia Pike interchange.
    (c) Selection of Property for Conveyance.--The Memorandum of 
Understanding between the Department of the Army and Arlington County 
signed in January 2013 shall be used as a guide in determining the 
properties to be exchanged under this section. After consultation with 
the Commonwealth and the County, the Secretary of Defense shall 
determine the exact parcels to be exchanged, and such determination 
shall be final. In selecting the properties to be exchanged under 
subsections (a) and (b), the parties shall, within their respective 
authorities, seek--
        (1) to remove existing barriers to contiguous expansion of 
    Arlington National Cemetery north of Columbia Pike through a 
    realignment of Southgate Road to the western boundary of the former 
    Navy Annex site;
        (2) to provide the County with sufficient property to construct 
    a museum that honors the history of Freedman's Village, as well as 
    any other County or public use that is compatible with a location 
    immediately adjacent to Arlington National Cemetery; and
        (3) to support the realignment and straightening of Columbia 
    Pike, a redesign of the Washington Boulevard-Columbia Pike 
    interchange, and future improvements to the Interstate 395 ramps.
    (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property to be conveyed under this section 
shall be determined by surveys satisfactory to the Secretary of 
Defense, in consultation with the Commonwealth and the County.
    (e) Terms and Conditions.--The conveyances of real property 
authorized under this section shall be accomplished by one or more 
exchange agreements upon terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to 
the Secretary of Defense, the Commonwealth, and the County.
    (f) Repeal of Obsolete Authority.--Section 2881 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (division B of 
Public Law 108-375; 118 Stat. 2153) is repealed. The repeal of such 
section does not affect the amendments made by subsections (g) and (h) 
of such section.

         Subtitle E--Military Memorials, Monuments, and Museums

SEC. 2851. ACCEPTANCE OF IN-KIND GIFTS ON BEHALF OF HERITAGE CENTER FOR 
THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE UNITED STATES ARMY.
    Section 4772(c)(2)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
by striking ``accept funds from the Army Historical Foundation'' and 
insert ``accept funds and in-kind gifts, including services, 
construction materials, and equipment used in construction, from the 
Army Historical Foundation and other persons''.
SEC. 2852. MT. SOLEDAD VETERANS MEMORIAL, SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA.
    (a) Requirement to Convey Mt. Soledad Veterans Memorial.--Subject 
to subsections (b) and (d), the Secretary of Defense shall convey all 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the Mt. 
Soledad Veterans Memorial in San Diego, California, to the Mount 
Soledad Memorial Association, Inc.
    (b) Contingencies.--The requirement under subsection (a) to convey 
the Memorial to the Association is contingent upon--
        (1) an agreement between the Association and the Secretary of 
    the Defense regarding consideration to be paid by the Association 
    as described in subsection (c); and
        (2) the Association's agreement to accept the Memorial subject 
    to the conditions described in subsection (d).
    (c) Consideration.--
        (1) Determination of consideration.--The Secretary of Defense 
    shall convey the Memorial to the Association for consideration 
    that, as determined by the Secretary, reasonably reflects--
            (A) the price paid by the United States to purchase the 
        Memorial pursuant to Public Law 109-272 (16 U.S.C. 431 note);
            (B) significant reductions in the market value of the 
        Memorial as a result of the conditions imposed by subsection 
        (d); and
            (C) any additional equities the Association may have, such 
        as prior occupancy and any improvements made to the Memorial.
        (2) Time for payment.--The amount of consideration determined 
    under paragraph (1) need not be received by the United States in 
    full before conveyance of the Memorial. The consideration may be 
    paid over a period of time or through installments, or such other 
    financial instruments or arrangements, as may be reasonably 
    convenient for the Secretary and the Association.
    (d) Conditions of Conveyance.--The conveyance of the Memorial under 
subsection (a) shall be subject to the following conditions:
        (1) The Memorial shall be accepted in its condition at the time 
    of the conveyance, commonly known as conveyance ``as is''.
        (2) The Association, and any successive owner of the Memorial, 
    shall maintain and use the Memorial as a veterans memorial in 
    perpetuity.
        (3) If the Secretary of Defense determines that the Memorial is 
    ever put to a use other than as a veterans memorial, the United 
    States shall have the right, at its election, to reacquire all 
    right, title, and interest in and to the Memorial without any right 
    of compensation to the owner or any other person. Any election to 
    reacquire the Memorial under the authority of this paragraph shall 
    be temporary and solely for the purpose of conveying, as 
    expeditiously as practicable, the Memorial to another entity 
    subject to the same conditions in this subsection.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``Association'' means the Mount Soledad Memorial 
    Association, Inc.
        (2) The terms ``Mt. Soledad Veterans Memorial'' and 
    ``Memorial'' mean the memorial in San Diego, California, acquired 
    by the United States pursuant to Public Law 109-272 (16 U.S.C. 431 
    note).
        (3) The term ``veterans memorial'' means a display of 
    commemorative objects, such as tablets, statuary, and other 
    fixtures, that--
            (A) pays tribute to those persons who served in the Armed 
        Forces of the United States; and
            (B) is unencumbered by structures not intended for the 
        purpose specified in subparagraph (A).
SEC. 2853. ESTABLISHMENT OF MEMORIAL TO THE VICTIMS OF THE SHOOTING AT 
THE WASHINGTON NAVY YARD ON SEPTEMBER 16, 2013.
    (a) Memorial Authorized.--The Secretary of the Navy may permit a 
third party to establish and maintain a memorial dedicated to the 
victims of the shooting attack at the Washington Navy Yard that 
occurred on September 16, 2013.
    (b) Location of Memorial.--The Secretary of the Navy may permit the 
memorial authorized by subsection (a) to be established at the 
Washington Navy Yard.
    (c) Establishment of Account.--An account shall be established on 
the books of the Treasury for the purpose of managing contributions 
received pursuant to paragraph (d).
    (d) Acceptance of Contributions.--The Secretary of the Navy may 
establish procedures under which the Secretary may solicit and accept 
monetary contributions or gifts of property for the purpose of the 
activities described in subsection (a).
    (e) Deposit of Contributions.--Without regard to the limitations 
set forth under section 2601(c)(2) of title 10, United States Code, 
amounts collected by the Secretary of the Navy under subsection (d) 
shall be--
        (1) credited as discretionary offsetting collections in the 
    account established under subsection (c); and
        (2) available, to the extent and in amounts provided in advance 
    in appropriations Acts, until expended for the purposes described 
    in subsection (a).
    (f) Use of Federal Funds Prohibited.--Federal funds may not be used 
to design, procure, prepare, install, or maintain the memorial 
authorized by subsection (a).
    (g) Condition.--The memorial authorized by subsection (a) may not 
be established until the Secretary of the Navy determines that an 
assured source of non-Federal funding has been established for the 
design, procurement, installation, and maintenance of the memorial in 
perpetuity.
    (h) Design of Memorial.--The final design of the memorial 
authorized by subsection (a) shall be subject to the approval of the 
Secretary of the Navy.

                        Subtitle F--Designations

SEC. 2861. REDESIGNATION OF THE ASIA-PACIFIC CENTER FOR SECURITY 
STUDIES AS THE DANIEL K. INOUYE ASIA-PACIFIC CENTER FOR SECURITY 
STUDIES.
    (a) Redesignation.--The Department of Defense regional center for 
security studies known as the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies 
is hereby renamed the ``Daniel K. Inouye Asia-Pacific Center for 
Security Studies''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Reference to regional centers for strategic studies.--
    Section 184(b)(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
    striking ``Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies'' and inserting 
    ``Daniel K. Inouye Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies''.
        (2) Acceptance of gifts and donations.--Section 2611(a)(2)(B) 
    of such title is amended by striking ``Asia-Pacific Center for 
    Security Studies'' and inserting ``Daniel K. Inouye Asia-Pacific 
    Center for Security Studies''.
    (c) References.--Any reference to the Department of Defense Asia-
Pacific Center for Security Studies in any law, regulation, map, 
document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be deemed 
to be a reference to the Daniel K. Inouye Asia-Pacific Center for 
Security Studies.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 2871. REPORT ON PHYSICAL SECURITY AT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
FACILITIES.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than April 30, 2015, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report setting forth a summary of the actions taken by the Department 
of Defense to respond to recommendations resulting from the reviews of 
security standards following the November 2009 shootings at Fort Hood, 
Texas, and the September 2013 shootings at the Washington Navy Yard, 
District of Columbia, which included an assessment of the ability of 
the Department to detect, prevent, and respond to future incidents of 
violence at Department facilities.
    (b) Elements of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
        (1) A summary of the recommendations resulting from the 
    security standards reviews referred to in subsection (a).
        (2) A description of the actions taken on each recommendation.
        (3) An assessment of current and planned physical security 
    capabilities at Department facilities, and their ability to meet 
    Department physical security requirements.
        (4) An identification and assessment of known and potential 
    physical security shortfalls at Department facilities.
        (5) An assessment of the ability of the Department to eliminate 
    or mitigate shortfalls in physical security at Department 
    facilities, including recommendations on means to increase physical 
    security at such facilities and the funding required to implement 
    such means.

   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2901. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition project.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2903. Authorized Defense Agency construction and land acquisition 
          project.
Sec. 2904. Authorization of appropriations.
SEC. 2901. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECT.
    The Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out 
the military construction project for the installation outside the 
United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                        Installation                       Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Romania........................................  Mihail Kogalniceanu............................     $37,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2902. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
PROJECTS.
    The Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry 
out the military construction projects for the installations outside 
the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following 
table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                        Installation                       Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bulgaria.......................................  Graf Ignatievo.................................      $3,200,000
Estonia........................................  Amari..........................................     $24,780,000
Italy..........................................  Camp Darby.....................................     $44,450,000
Latvia.........................................  Lielvarde......................................     $10,710,000
Lithuania......................................  Siauliai.......................................     $13,120,000
Poland.........................................  Lask...........................................     $22,400,000
Romania........................................  Camp Turzii....................................      $2,900,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2903. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
PROJECT.
    The Secretary of Defense may acquire real property and carry out 
the military construction project for the installation outside the 
United States, and in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                                    Defense Agency: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  Installation                                    Defense Agency                      Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Worldwide Classified...........................  National Security Agency.......................     $46,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2904. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2014, for the military construction 
projects outside the United States authorized by this title as 
specified in the funding table in section 4602.

        TITLE XXX--NATURAL RESOURCES RELATED GENERAL PROVISIONS

            Subtitle A--Land Conveyances and Related Matters

Sec. 3001. Land conveyance, Wainwright, Alaska.
Sec. 3002. Sealaska land entitlement finalization.
Sec. 3003. Southeast Arizona land exchange and conservation.
Sec. 3004. Land exchange, Cibola National Wildlife Refuge, Arizona, and 
          Bureau of Land Management land in Riverside County, 
          California.
Sec. 3005. Special rules for Inyo National Forest, California, land 
          exchange.
Sec. 3006. Land exchange, Trinity Public Utilities District, Trinity 
          County, California, the Bureau of Land Management, and the 
          Forest Service.
Sec. 3007. Idaho County, Idaho, shooting range land conveyance.
Sec. 3008. School District 318, Minnesota, land exchange.
Sec. 3009. Northern Nevada land conveyances.
Sec. 3010. San Juan County, New Mexico, Federal land conveyance.
Sec. 3011. Land conveyance, Uinta-Wasatch-Cache National Forest, Utah.
Sec. 3012. Conveyance of certain land to the city of Fruit Heights, 
          Utah.
Sec. 3013. Land conveyance, Hanford Site, Washington.
Sec. 3014. Ranch A Wyoming consolidation and management improvement.

     Subtitle B--Public Lands and National Forest System Management

Sec. 3021. Bureau of Land Management permit processing.
Sec. 3022. Internet-based onshore oil and gas lease sales.
Sec. 3023. Grazing permits and leases.
Sec. 3024. Cabin user and transfer fees.

                 Subtitle C--National Park System Units

Sec. 3030. Addition of Ashland Harbor Breakwater Light to the Apostle 
          Islands National Seashore.
Sec. 3031. Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park.
Sec. 3032. Coltsville National Historical Park.
Sec. 3033. First State National Historical Park.
Sec. 3034. Gettysburg National Military Park.
Sec. 3035. Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad National Historical Park, 
          Maryland.
Sec. 3036. Harriet Tubman National Historical Park, Auburn, New York.
Sec. 3037. Hinchliffe Stadium addition to Paterson Great Falls National 
          Historical Park.
Sec. 3038. Lower East Side Tenement National Historic Site.
Sec. 3039. Manhattan Project National Historical Park.
Sec. 3040. North Cascades National Park and Stephen Mather Wilderness.
Sec. 3041. Oregon Caves National Monument and Preserve.
Sec. 3042. San Antonio Missions National Historical Park.
Sec. 3043. Valles Caldera National Preserve, New Mexico.
Sec. 3044. Vicksburg National Military Park.

   Subtitle D--National Park System Studies, Management, and Related 
                                 Matters

Sec. 3050. Revolutionary War and War of 1812 American battlefield 
          protection program.
Sec. 3051. Special resource studies.
Sec. 3052. National heritage areas and corridors.
Sec. 3053. National historic site support facility improvements.
Sec. 3054. National Park System donor acknowledgment.
Sec. 3055. Coin to commemorate 100th anniversary of the National Park 
          Service.
Sec. 3056. Commission to study the potential creation of a National 
          Women's History Museum.
Sec. 3057. Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area.

                 Subtitle E--Wilderness and Withdrawals

Sec. 3060. Alpine Lakes Wilderness additions and Pratt and Middle Fork 
          Snoqualmie Rivers protection.
Sec. 3061. Columbine-Hondo Wilderness.
Sec. 3062. Hermosa Creek watershed protection.
Sec. 3063. North Fork Federal lands withdrawal area.
Sec. 3064. Pine Forest Range Wilderness.
Sec. 3065. Rocky Mountain Front Conservation Management Area and 
          wilderness additions.
Sec. 3066. Wovoka Wilderness.
Sec. 3067. Withdrawal area related to Wovoka Wilderness.
Sec. 3068. Withdrawal and reservation of additional public land for 
          Naval Air Weapons Station, China Lake, California.

                   Subtitle F--Wild and Scenic Rivers

Sec. 3071. Illabot Creek, Washington, wild and scenic river.
Sec. 3072. Missisquoi and Trout wild and scenic rivers, Vermont.
Sec. 3073. White Clay Creek wild and scenic river expansion.
Sec. 3074. Studies of wild and scenic rivers.

                         Subtitle G--Trust Lands

Sec. 3077. Land taken into trust for benefit of the Northern Cheyenne 
          Tribe.
Sec. 3078. Transfer of administrative jurisdiction, Badger Army 
          Ammunition Plant, Baraboo, Wisconsin.

          Subtitle H--Miscellaneous Access and Property Issues

Sec. 3081. Ensuring public access to the summit of Rattlesnake Mountain 
          in the Hanford Reach National Monument.
Sec. 3082. Anchorage, Alaska, conveyance of reversionary interests.
Sec. 3083. Release of property interests in Bureau of Land Management 
          land conveyed to the State of Oregon for establishment of 
          Hermiston Agricultural Research and Extension Center.

                    Subtitle I--Water Infrastructure

Sec. 3087. Bureau of Reclamation hydropower development.
Sec. 3088. Toledo Bend Hydroelectric Project.
Sec. 3089. East Bench Irrigation District contract extension.

                        Subtitle J--Other Matters

Sec. 3091. Commemoration of centennial of World War I.
Sec. 3092. Miscellaneous issues related to Las Vegas valley public land 
          and Tule Springs Fossil Beds National Monument.
Sec. 3093. National Desert Storm and Desert Shield Memorial.
Sec. 3094. Extension of legislative authority for establishment of 
          commemorative work in honor of former President John Adams.
Sec. 3095. Refinancing of Pacific Coast groundfish fishing capacity 
          reduction loan.
Sec. 3096. Payments in lieu of taxes.

            Subtitle A--Land Conveyances and Related Matters

SEC. 3001. LAND CONVEYANCE, WAINWRIGHT, ALASKA.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Corporation.--The term ``Corporation'' means the Olgoonik 
    Corporation, an Alaska Native Corporation established under the 
    Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
        (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
    (b) Conveyance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act and after the date of completion of the appraisal 
required under subsection (d)(1)(B), the Secretary shall convey to the 
Corporation by quitclaim deed, for the amount of consideration 
determined under subsection (d)(1), all right, title, and interest of 
the United States in and to a parcel of real property described in 
subsection (c).
    (c) Description of Property.--The parcel to be conveyed under 
subsection (b) consists of approximately 1,518 acres and improvements 
comprising a former Distant Early Warning Line site in the National 
Petroleum Reserve in Alaska near Wainwright, Alaska, and described as 
United States Survey Number 5252 located within the Umiat Meridian.
    (d) Terms and Conditions.--
        (1) Consideration.--
            (A) In general.--As consideration for the conveyance of the 
        property under subsection (b), the Corporation shall pay to the 
        Secretary an amount equal to not less than the fair market 
        value of the conveyed property, to be determined as provided in 
        subparagraph (B).
            (B) Appraisal.--The fair market value of the property to be 
        conveyed under subsection (b) shall be determined based on an 
        appraisal that is conducted--
                (i) by an independent appraiser selected by the 
            Secretary; and
                (ii) in accordance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards 
            for Federal Land Acquisitions and the Uniform Standards of 
            Professional Appraisal Practice.
        (2) Additional terms and conditions.--The Secretary may require 
    such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
    conveyance under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers 
    appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
SEC. 3002. SEALASKA LAND ENTITLEMENT FINALIZATION.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Maps.--The term ``maps'' means the maps entitled ``Sealaska 
    Land Entitlement Finalization'', numbered 1 through 18, and dated 
    June 14, 2013.
        (2) Sealaska.--The term ``Sealaska'' means the Sealaska 
    Corporation, a Regional Native Corporation established under the 
    Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.).
        (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Alaska.
    (b) Finalization of Entitlement.--
        (1) In general.--If, not later than 90 days after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary receives a corporate 
    resolution adopted by the board of directors of Sealaska agreeing 
    to accept the conveyance of land described in paragraph (2) in 
    accordance with this section as full and final satisfaction of the 
    remaining land entitlement of Sealaska under section 14(h) of the 
    Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)), the 
    Secretary shall--
            (A) implement the provisions of this section; and
            (B) charge the entitlement pool under section 14(h)(8) of 
        the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)(8)) 
        70,075 acres, reduced by the number of acres deducted under 
        paragraph (2)(B), in fulfillment of the remaining land 
        entitlement for Sealaska under that Act, notwithstanding 
        whether the surveyed acreage of the 18 parcels of land 
        generally depicted on the maps as ``Sealaska Selections'' and 
        patented under subsection (c) is less than or more than 69,585 
        acres, reduced by the number of acres deducted under paragraph 
        (2)(B).
        (2) Final entitlement.--
            (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        the 70,075 acres of land described in paragraph (1) shall 
        consist of--
                (i) the 18 parcels of Federal land comprising 
            approximately 69,585 acres that is generally depicted as 
            ``Sealaska Selections'' on the maps; and
                (ii) a total of not more than 490 acres of Federal land 
            for cemetery sites and historical places comprised of 
            parcels that are applied for in accordance with subsection 
            (d).
            (B) Deduction.--
                (i) In general.--The Secretary shall deduct from the 
            number of acres of Federal land described in subparagraph 
            (A)(i) the number of acres of Federal land for which the 
            Secretary has issued a conveyance under section 14(h)(8) of 
            the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
            1613(h)(8)) during the period beginning on August 1, 2012, 
            and ending on the date of receipt of the resolution under 
            paragraph (1).
                (ii) Agreement.--The Secretary, the Secretary of 
            Agriculture, and Sealaska shall negotiate in good faith to 
            make a mutually agreeable adjustment to the parcel of 
            Federal land generally depicted on the maps numbered 1 and 
            18 to implement the deduction of acres required by clause 
            (i).
        (3) Effect of acceptance.--The resolution filed by Sealaska in 
    accordance with paragraph (1) shall--
            (A) be final and irrevocable; and
            (B) without any further administrative action by the 
        Secretary, result in--
                (i) the relinquishment of all existing selections made 
            by Sealaska under section 14(h)(8) of the Alaska Native 
            Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)(8)); and
                (ii) the termination of all withdrawals by section 16 
            of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
            1615), except to the extent a selection by a Village 
            Corporation under subsections (b) and (d) of section 16 of 
            the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1615) 
            remains pending, until the date on which those selections 
            are resolved.
        (4) Failure to accept.--If Sealaska fails to file the 
    resolution in accordance with paragraph (1)--
            (A) the provisions of this section shall cease to be 
        effective, except as otherwise provided in this subsection;
            (B) the Secretary shall, not later than 5 years after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, complete the interim conveyance 
        of the remaining land entitlement to Sealaska under section 
        14(h)(8) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
        1613(h)(8)) from prioritized selections on file with the 
        Secretary on the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (C)(i) the remaining land entitlement of Sealaska under 
        section 14(h)(8) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 
        U.S.C. 1613(h)(8)) shall be 70,075 acres, provided that the 
        Secretary shall deduct the number of acres of Federal land for 
        which the Secretary has issued a conveyance under section 
        14(h)(8) of that Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)(8)) during the period 
        beginning on August 1, 2012, and ending 90 days after the date 
        of enactment of this Act; and
            (ii) if the Governor of the State does not approve the 
        prioritized selections of Sealaska in the Saxman or Yakutat 
        withdrawal areas as required by section 14(h)(8)(B) of the 
        Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)(8)(B)) 
        by the date that is 42 months after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary shall reject those selections and 
        fulfill the remaining land entitlement of Sealaska from the 
        remaining prioritized selections on file with the Secretary on 
        the date of enactment of this Act.
        (5) Scope of law.--Except as provided in paragraphs (4) and 
    (6), this section provides the exclusive authority under which the 
    remaining land entitlement of Sealaska under section 14(h) of the 
    Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)) may be 
    fulfilled.
        (6) Effect.--Nothing in this section affects any land that is--
            (A) the subject of an application under subsection (h)(1) 
        of section 14 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 
        U.S.C. 1613) that is pending on the date of enactment of this 
        Act; and
            (B) conveyed in accordance with that subsection.
    (c) Conveyances to Sealaska.--
        (1) Interim conveyance.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, 
        paragraphs (3), (4), and (5), subsection (b)(2), and subsection 
        (e)(1), the Secretary shall complete the interim conveyance of 
        the 18 parcels of Federal land comprising approximately 69,585 
        acres generally depicted on the maps by the date that is 60 
        days after the date of receipt of the resolution under 
        subsection (b)(1), subject to the Secretary identifying and 
        reserving, by the date that is 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, any easement under section 17(b) of the 
        Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(b)) that 
        could have been reserved prior to the interim conveyance.
            (B) Failure to reserve easements by deadline.--If the 
        Secretary does not complete the reservation of easements under 
        subparagraph (A) by the date that is 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall reserve the 
        easements as soon as practicable after that date.
        (2) Withdrawal.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        Federal land described in paragraph (1) is withdrawn from--
                (i) all forms of appropriation under the public land 
            laws;
                (ii) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws;
                (iii) disposition under laws relating to mineral or 
            geothermal leasing; and
                (iv) selection under the Act of July 7, 1958 (commonly 
            known as the ``Alaska Statehood Act'') (48 U.S.C. note 
            prec. 21; Public Law 85-508).
            (B) Termination.--The withdrawal under subparagraph (A) 
        shall remain in effect until--
                (i) if Sealaska fails to file a resolution in 
            accordance with subsection (b)(1), the date that is 90 days 
            after the date of enactment of this Act; or
                (ii) the date on which the Federal land is conveyed 
            under paragraph (1).
        (3) Treatment of land conveyed.--Except as otherwise provided 
    in this section, any land conveyed to Sealaska under paragraph (1) 
    shall be--
            (A) considered to be land conveyed by the Secretary under 
        section 14(h)(8) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 
        U.S.C. 1613(h)(8)); and
            (B) subject to all laws (including regulations) applicable 
        to entitlements under section 14(h)(8) of the Alaska Native 
        Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)(8)), including section 
        907(d) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act 
        (43 U.S.C. 1636(d)).
        (4) Easements.--
            (A) Public easements.--
                (i) In general.--The interim conveyance and patents for 
            the land under paragraph (1) shall be subject to the 
            reservation of public easements under section 17(b) of the 
            Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(b)).
                (ii) Termination.--No public easement reserved on land 
            conveyed under paragraph (1) shall be terminated without 
            publication of notice of the proposed termination in the 
            Federal Register.
                (iii) Reservation of easements.--In the interim 
            conveyance and patents for the land under paragraph (1), 
            the Secretary shall reserve the right of the Secretary to 
            amend the interim conveyance and patents to include 
            reservations of public easements under section 17(b) of the 
            Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(b)) 
            until the completion of the easement reservation process.
            (B) Conservation easements.--
                (i) In general.--In the interim conveyance and patents 
            for the land under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
            reserve a conservation easement to protect the aquatic and 
            riparian habitat extending 100 feet on each side of the 
            anadromous water bodies depicted as ``100 Foot Conservation 
            Easement'' on the maps numbered 3, 4, and 6.
                (ii) Prohibition.--The commercial harvest of timber 
            within the conservation easements described in clause (i) 
            shall be prohibited, except that Sealaska may, for the 
            purpose of harvesting timber outside of the conservation 
            easement--

                    (I) maintain roads within the conservation easement 
                that are in existence on the date of enactment of this 
                Act; and
                    (II) construct temporary roads and yarding 
                corridors across the conservation easements in 
                accordance with the applicable National Forest System 
                construction standards.

                (iii) Administration.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
            shall administer the conservation easements described in 
            clause (i).
            (C) Research easement.--In the interim conveyance and 
        patent for the land generally depicted on the map numbered 7, 
        the Secretary shall reserve an easement--
                (i) to access and continue Forest Service research 
            activities on the study plots located on the land; and
                (ii) that shall remain in effect for a 10-year period 
            beginning on the date of enactment of this Act.
            (D) Koscuisko island road easement.--
                (i) In general.--Concurrently with the conveyance of 
            land under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall grant to 
            Sealaska an easement on Koscuisko Island providing access 
            to and use by Sealaska of the sort yard and all other 
            upland facilities at the sort yard that are associated with 
            the transfer of logs to the marine environment, subject 
            to--

                    (I) the agreement under clause (iii); and
                    (II) the agreement under subsection (e)(2).

                (ii) Scope of the easement.--The easement under clause 
            (i) shall enable Sealaska--

                    (I) to construct, use, and maintain a road 
                connecting the National Forest System Road known as 
                ``Cape Pole Road'' to the National Forest System Road 
                known as ``South Shipley Bay Road'' within the corridor 
                depicted on the map numbered 3;
                    (II) to use, maintain, and if necessary, 
                reconstruct the National Forest System Road known as 
                ``South Shipley Bay Road'' referred to in subclause (I) 
                to access the sort yard and associated upland 
                facilities at Shipley Bay; and
                    (III) to use, maintain, and expand the sort yard 
                and associated upland facilities at Shipley Bay that 
                are within the area depicted on the map numbered 3.

                (iii) Roads and facilities use agreement.--In addition 
            to the agreement under subsection (e)(2), the Secretary of 
            Agriculture and Sealaska shall enter into an agreement 
            relating to the access, use, maintenance, and improvement 
            of the roads and facilities under this subparagraph.
                (iv) Effect.--Nothing in this subparagraph preempts or 
            otherwise affects State or local regulatory authority.
        (5) Hunting, fishing, and recreation.--
            (A) In general.--Any land conveyed under paragraph (1) that 
        is located outside a withdrawal area designated under section 
        16(a) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
        1615(a)) shall remain open and available to subsistence uses, 
        noncommercial recreational hunting and fishing, and other 
        noncommercial recreational uses by the public under applicable 
        law--
                (i) without liability on the part of Sealaska, except 
            for willful acts, to any user as a result of the use; and
                (ii) subject to--

                    (I) any reasonable restrictions that may be imposed 
                by Sealaska on the public use--

                        (aa) to ensure public safety;
                        (bb) to minimize conflicts between recreational 
                    and commercial uses;
                        (cc) to protect cultural resources;
                        (dd) to conduct scientific research; or
                        (ee) to provide environmental protection; and

                    (II) the condition that Sealaska post on any 
                applicable property, in accordance with State law, 
                notices of the restrictions on use.

            (B) Effect.--Access provided to any individual or entity 
        under subparagraph (A) shall not--
                (i) create an interest in any third party in the land 
            conveyed under paragraph (1); or
                (ii) provide standing to any third party in any review 
            of, or challenge to, any determination by Sealaska with 
            respect to the management or development of the land 
            conveyed under paragraph (1), except as against Sealaska 
            for the management of public access under subparagraph (A).
    (d) Cemetery Sites and Historical Places.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 14(h)(1)(E) of the 
    Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)(1)(E)), 
    Sealaska may submit applications for the conveyance under section 
    14(h)(1)(A) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
    1613(h)(1)(A)) of not more than 76 cemetery sites and historical 
    places--
            (A) that are listed in the document entitled ``Sealaska 
        Cemetery Sites and Historical Places'' and dated October 17, 
        2012;
            (B) that are cemetery sites and historical places included 
        in the report by Wilsey and Ham, Inc., entitled ``1975 Native 
        Cemetery and Historic Sites of Southeast Alaska (Preliminary 
        Report)'' and dated October 1975;
            (C) for which Sealaska has not previously submitted an 
        application; and
            (D) that are not located within a conservation system unit 
        (as defined in section 102 of the Alaska National Interest 
        Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3102)).
        (2) Procedure for evaluating applications.--Except as otherwise 
    provided in this subsection, the Secretary shall consider all 
    applications submitted under this subsection in accordance with the 
    criteria and procedures set forth in applicable regulations in 
    effect as of the date of enactment of this Act.
        (3) Conveyance.--If approved under the procedures described in 
    paragraph (2), the Secretary shall convey cemetery sites and 
    historical places that result in the conveyance of a total of 
    approximately 490 acres of Federal land comprised of parcels that 
    are--
            (A) applied for in accordance with this subsection; and
            (B) subject to--
                (i) valid existing rights;
                (ii) the public access provisions of paragraph (7);
                (iii) the condition that the conveyance of land for the 
            site listed under paragraph (1)(A) as ``Bay of Pillars 
            Portage'' is limited to not more than 25 acres in T.60 S., 
            R.72 E., Sec. 28, Copper River Meridian; and
                (iv) the condition that any access to or use of the 
            cemetery sites and historical places shall be consistent 
            with the management plans for adjacent public land, if the 
            management plans are more restrictive than the laws 
            (including regulations) applicable under paragraph (9).
        (4) Timeline.--No application for a cemetery site or historical 
    place may be submitted under paragraph (1) after the date that is 2 
    years after the date of enactment of this Act.
        (5) Consultation with recognized tribal entity.--Sealaska 
    shall--
            (A) consult with any affected federally recognized Indian 
        tribe before submitting any application for a cemetery site or 
        historical place located within the vicinity of the Indian 
        tribe; and
            (B) include with each application described in subparagraph 
        (A) a statement that the required consultation was carried out 
        in accordance with that subparagraph.
        (6) Selection of additional cemetery sites.--If Sealaska 
    submits timely applications to the Secretary in accordance with 
    paragraphs (1), (4), and (5), for all 76 sites listed under 
    paragraph (1)(A), and the Secretary rejects any of those 
    applications in whole or in part--
            (A) not later than 2 years after the date on which the 
        Secretary completes the conveyance of eligible cemetery sites 
        and historical places applied for under paragraph (1), and 
        subject to paragraph (5), Sealaska may submit applications for 
        the conveyance under section 14 (h)(1)(A) of the Alaska Native 
        Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)(1)(A)) of additional 
        cemetery sites that are not located in a conservation system 
        unit described in paragraph (1)(D), the total acreage of which, 
        together with the cemetery sites and historical places 
        previously conveyed by the Secretary under paragraph (3), shall 
        not exceed 490 acres; and
            (B) the Secretary shall--
                (i) consider any applications for the conveyance of 
            additional cemetery sites in accordance with paragraph (2); 
            and
                (ii) if the applications are approved, provide for the 
            conveyance of the sites in accordance with paragraph (3).
        (7) Public access.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), any land 
        conveyed under this subsection shall be subject to--
                (i) the reservation of public easements under section 
            17(b) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
            1616(b));
                (ii) public access across the conveyed land in cases in 
            which no reasonable alternative access around the land is 
            available, without liability to Sealaska, except for 
            willful acts, to any user by reason of the use; and
                (iii) public access to and along any Class I stream 
            described in section 705(e) of the Alaska National Interest 
            Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 539d(e)) for 
            noncommercial recreational and subsistence fishing, without 
            liability to Sealaska, except for willful acts, to any user 
            by reason of the use.
            (B) Limitations.--The public access and use under clauses 
        (ii) and (iii) of subparagraph (A) shall be subject to--
                (i) any reasonable restrictions that may be imposed by 
            Sealaska on the public access and use--

                    (I) to ensure public safety;
                    (II) to protect and conduct research on the 
                historic, archaeological, and cultural resources of the 
                conveyed land; or
                    (III) to provide environmental protection;

                (ii) the condition that Sealaska post on any applicable 
            property, in accordance with State law, notices of the 
            restrictions on the public access and use; and
                (iii) the condition that the public access and use 
            shall not be incompatible with or in derogation of the 
            values of the area as a cemetery site or historical place, 
            as provided in section 2653.11 of title 43, Code of Federal 
            Regulations (or a successor regulation).
            (C) Effect.--Access provided to any individual or entity by 
        subparagraph (A) shall not--
                (i) create an interest in any third party in the land 
            conveyed under this subsection; or
                (ii) provide standing to any third party in any review 
            of, or challenge to, any determination by Sealaska with 
            respect to the management or development of the land 
            conveyed under this subsection, except as against Sealaska 
            for the management of public access under subparagraph (B).
        (8) Prohibition on transfer or loss.--
            (A) Prohibition on transfer.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, Sealaska shall not--
                (i) alienate, transfer, assign, mortgage, or pledge any 
            cemetery site or historical place conveyed under this 
            subsection to any person or entity other than the United 
            States; or
                (ii) permit development or improvement of the cemetery 
            site or historical place for any use which is incompatible 
            with, or is in derogation of, the values of the area as a 
            cemetery site or historical place.
            (B) Prohibition on loss.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, any cemetery site or historical place 
        conveyed to Sealaska under this subsection shall be exempt 
        from--
                (i) adverse possession and similar claims based on 
            estoppel;
                (ii) title 11 of the United States Code or a successor 
            law, any other insolvency or moratorium law, or any other 
            law generally affecting creditors' rights;
                (iii) judgments in any action at law or in equity to 
            recover sums owed or penalties incurred by Sealaska or any 
            employee, officer, director, or shareholder of Sealaska, 
            except for liens from real property taxes; and
                (iv) involuntary distributions or conveyances to any 
            person or entity other than the United States related to 
            the involuntary dissolution of Sealaska.
        (9) Treatment of land conveyed.--Except as otherwise provided 
    in this section, any land conveyed to Sealaska under this 
    subsection shall be--
            (A) considered land conveyed by the Secretary under section 
        14(h)(1) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
        1613(h)(1)); and
            (B) subject to all laws (including regulations) applicable 
        to conveyances under section 14(h)(1) of the Alaska Native 
        Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(h)(1)), including section 
        907(d) of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act 
        (43 U.S.C. 1636(d)).
    (e) Miscellaneous.--
        (1) Special use authorizations.--
            (A) In general.--On the conveyance of land to Sealaska 
        under subsection (c)(1)--
                (i) any guiding or outfitting special use authorization 
            issued by the Forest Service for the use of the conveyed 
            land shall terminate; and
                (ii) as a condition of the conveyance and consistent 
            with section 14(g) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement 
            Act (43 U.S.C. 1613(g)), Sealaska shall issue the holder of 
            the special use authorization terminated under clause (i) 
            an authorization to continue the authorized use, subject to 
            the terms and conditions that were in the special use 
            authorization issued by the Forest Service, for--

                    (I) the remainder of the term of the authorization; 
                and
                    (II) 1 additional consecutive 10-year renewal 
                period.

            (B) Notice of commercial activities.--Sealaska and any 
        holder of a guiding or outfitting authorization under this 
        paragraph shall have a mutual obligation, subject to the 
        guiding or outfitting authorization, to inform the other party 
        of any commercial activities prior to engaging in the 
        activities on the land conveyed to Sealaska under subsection 
        (c)(1).
            (C) Negotiation of new terms.--Nothing in this paragraph 
        precludes Sealaska and the holder of a guiding or outfitting 
        authorization from negotiating a new mutually agreeable guiding 
        or outfitting authorization.
            (D) Liability.--Neither Sealaska nor the United States 
        shall bear any liability, except for willful acts of Sealaska 
        or the United States, regarding the use and occupancy of any 
        land conveyed to Sealaska under this section, as provided in 
        any outfitting or guiding authorization under this paragraph.
        (2) Roads and facilities.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
    of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture and Sealaska 
    shall negotiate in good faith to develop a binding agreement--
            (A) for the use of National Forest System roads and related 
        transportation facilities by Sealaska; and
            (B) the use of Sealaska roads and related transportation 
        facilities by the Forest Service.
        (3) Traditional trade and migration routes.--
            (A) Identification of routes.--
                (i) The inside passage.--The route from Yakutat to Dry 
            Bay, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
            ``Traditional Trade and Migration Route, Neix naax aan 
            nax--The Inside Passage'' and dated April 22, 2013, shall 
            be known as ``Neix naax aan nax'' (``The Inside Passage'').
                (ii) Canoe road.--The route from the Bay of Pillars to 
            Port Camden, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
            ``Traditional Trade and Migration Route, Yakwdeiyi--Canoe 
            Road'' and dated April 22, 2013, shall be known as 
            ``Yakwdeiyi'' (``Canoe Road'').
                (iii) The people's road.--The route from Portage Bay to 
            Duncan Canal, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
            ``Traditional Trade and Migration Route, Lingit Deiyi--The 
            People's Road'' and dated April 22, 2013, shall be known as 
            ``Lingit Deiyi'' (``The People's Road'').
            (B) Access to traditional trade and migration routes.--The 
        culturally and historically significant trade and migration 
        routes described in subparagraph (A) shall be open to travel by 
        Sealaska and the public in accordance with applicable law, 
        subject to such terms, conditions, and special use 
        authorizations as the Secretary of Agriculture may require.
        (4) Tongass national forest young growth management.--
            (A) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (m) of section 
        6 of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act 
        of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1604) and in addition to the authority 
        provided under that subsection and the terms of section 705(a) 
        of the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 
        U.S.C. 539d(a)), the Secretary of Agriculture may allow the 
        harvest of trees prior to the culmination of mean annual 
        increment of growth in areas that are available for commercial 
        timber harvest under the Tongass National Forest Land and 
        Resource Management Plan to facilitate the transition from 
        commercial timber harvest of old growth stands.
            (B) Limitation.--Any sale of trees pursuant to the 
        authority granted under subparagraph (A) shall not--
                (i) exceed 15,000 acres during the 10-year period 
            beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, with an 
            annual maximum of 3,000 acres sold;
                (ii) exceed a total of 50,000 acres, with an annual 
            maximum of 5,000 acres sold after the first 10-year period;
                (iii) be advertised if the indicated rate is deficit 
            (defined as the value of the timber is not sufficient to 
            cover all logging and stumpage costs and provide a normal 
            profit and risk allowance under the appraisal process of 
            the Forest Service) when appraised using a residual value 
            appraisal; or
                (iv) apply to land withdrawn under subsection (c)(2).
            (C) Applicable law.--Nothing in this section affects the 
        requirement under section 705(a) of the Alaska National 
        Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 539d(a)) that the 
        Forest Service seek to meet demand for timber from the Tongass 
        National Forest.
        (5) Effect on other laws.--
            (A) In general.--Nothing in this section delays the duty of 
        the Secretary to convey land to--
                (i) the State under the Act of July 7, 1958 (commonly 
            known as the ``Alaska Statehood Act'') (48 U.S.C. note 
            prec. 21; Public Law 85-508); or
                (ii) a Native Corporation under--

                    (I) the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 
                U.S.C. 1601 et seq.); or
                    (II) the Alaska Land Transfer Acceleration Act (43 
                U.S.C. 1611 note; Public Law 108-452).

            (B) Conveyances.--The Secretary shall promptly proceed with 
        the conveyance of all land necessary to fulfill the final 
        entitlement of all Native Corporations in accordance with--
                (i) the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
            1601 et seq.); and
                (ii) the Alaska Land Transfer Acceleration Act (43 
            U.S.C. 1611 note; Public Law 108-452).
            (C) Fish and wildlife.--Nothing in this section enlarges or 
        diminishes the responsibility and authority of the State with 
        respect to the management of fish and wildlife on public land 
        in the State.
        (6) Escrow funds.--If Sealaska files the resolution in 
    accordance with subsection (b)(1)--
            (A) the escrow requirements of section 2 of Public Law 94-
        204 (43 U.S.C. 1613 note) shall apply to proceeds (including 
        interest) derived from the land withdrawn under subsection 
        (c)(2) from the date of receipt of the resolution; and
            (B) Sealaska shall have no right to any proceeds (including 
        interest) held pursuant to the escrow requirements of section 2 
        of Public Law 94-204 (43 U.S.C. 1613 note) that were derived 
        from land originally withdrawn for selection by section 16 of 
        the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1615), but 
        not conveyed.
        (7) Maps.--
            (A) Availability.--Each map referred to in this section 
        shall be available in the appropriate offices of the Secretary 
        and the Secretary of Agriculture.
            (B) Corrections.--The Secretary of Agriculture may make any 
        necessary correction to a clerical or typographical error in a 
        map referred to in this section.
    (f) Conservation Areas.--
        (1) LUD ii management areas.--If Sealaska files a resolution in 
    accordance with subsection (b)(1), section 508 of the Alaska 
    National Interest Lands Conservation Act (Public Law 96-487; 104 
    Stat. 4428) is amended by adding at the end the following:
        ``(13) Bay of pillars.--Certain land which comprises 
    approximately 20,863 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled `Bay of Pillars LUD II Management Area--Proposed' and 
    dated June 14, 2013.
        ``(14) Kushneahin creek.--Certain land which comprises 
    approximately 33,613 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled `Kushneahin Creek LUD II Management Area--Proposed' and 
    dated June 14, 2013.
        ``(15) Northern prince of wales.--Certain land which comprises 
    approximately 8,728 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled `Northern Prince of Wales LUD II Management Area--
    Proposed' and dated June 14, 2013.
        ``(16) Western kosciusko.--Certain land which comprises 
    approximately 8,012 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled `Western Kosciusko LUD II Management Area--Proposed' and 
    dated June 14, 2013.
        ``(17) Eastern kosciusko.--Certain land which comprises 
    approximately 1,664 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled `Eastern Kosciusko LUD II Management Area--Proposed' and 
    dated June 14, 2013.
        ``(18) Sarkar lakes.--Certain land which comprises 
    approximately 24,509 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled `Sarkar Lakes LUD II Management Area--Proposed' and dated 
    June 14, 2013.
        ``(19) Honker divide.--Certain land which comprises 
    approximately 19,805 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled `Honker Divide LUD II Management Area--Proposed' and dated 
    June 14, 2013.
        ``(20) Eek lake and sukkwan island.--Certain land which 
    comprises approximately 34,873 acres, as generally depicted on the 
    map entitled `Eek Lake and Sukkwan Island LUD II Management Area--
    Proposed' and dated June 14, 2013.''.
        (2) No buffer zones.--
            (A) In general.--The designation of the conservation areas 
        by paragraphs (13) through (20) of section 508 of the Alaska 
        National Interest Lands Conservation Act (Public Law 96-487; 
        104 Stat. 4428) (as added by paragraph (1)) (referred to in 
        this subsection as the ``conservation areas'') is not intended 
        to lead to the creation of protective perimeters or buffer 
        zones around the conservation areas.
            (B) Outside activities.--The fact that activities outside 
        of the conservation areas are not consistent with the purposes 
        of the conservation areas or can be seen or heard within the 
        conservation areas shall not preclude the activities or uses 
        outside the boundary of the conservation areas.
    (g) Reinstatement to Sealaska Corporation.--
        (1) Definition of affected individual.--In this subsection, the 
    term ``affected individual'' means Michael G. Faber, who--
            (A) is a former resident of the State of Alaska; and
            (B) was previously enrolled in Sealaska under roll number 
        13-752-39665-01.
        (2) Revocation of membership in metlakatla indian community.--
    Effective on the date on which the affected individual submits 
    written notice to the Metlakatla Indian Community revoking the 
    membership of the affected individual in the Metlakatla Indian 
    Community, the membership of the affected individual in the 
    Metlakatla Indian Community shall be considered to be revoked.
        (3) Reinstatement.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
    pursuant to section 5 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act 
    (43 U.S.C. 1604), the Secretary shall, immediately after the 
    affected individual submits the notice under paragraph (2), update 
    the shareholder roll of Sealaska to include the affected 
    individual.
        (4) Shareholder status.--As of the date on which the affected 
    individual is added to the shareholder roll of Sealaska under 
    paragraph (3), it is the intent of Congress that Sealaska--
            (A) reinstate the affected individual to the shareholder 
        roll of Sealaska; and
            (B) ensure the provision to the affected individual of the 
        number of shares originally allocated to the affected 
        individual by Sealaska.
        (5) Effect of subsection.--Nothing in this subsection provides 
    to the affected individual any retroactive benefit relating to 
    membership in--
            (A) Sealaska; or
            (B) the Metlakatla Indian Community.
SEC. 3003. SOUTHEAST ARIZONA LAND EXCHANGE AND CONSERVATION.
    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to authorize, direct, 
facilitate, and expedite the exchange of land between Resolution Copper 
and the United States.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Apache leap.--The term ``Apache Leap'' means the 
    approximately 807 acres of land depicted on the map entitled 
    ``Southeast Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act of 2011-
    Apache Leap'' and dated March 2011.
        (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
    approximately 2,422 acres of land located in Pinal County, Arizona, 
    depicted on the map entitled ``Southeast Arizona Land Exchange and 
    Conservation Act of 2011-Federal Parcel-Oak Flat'' and dated March 
    2011.
        (3) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian tribe'' has the meaning 
    given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and 
    Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b).
        (4) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means the 
    parcels of land owned by Resolution Copper that are described in 
    subsection (d)(1) and, if necessary to equalize the land exchange 
    under subsection (c), subsection (c)(5)(B)(i)(I).
        (5) Oak flat campground.--The term ``Oak Flat Campground'' 
    means the approximately 50 acres of land comprising approximately 
    16 developed campsites depicted on the map entitled ``Southeast 
    Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act of 2011-Oak Flat 
    Campground'' and dated March 2011.
        (6) Oak flat withdrawal area.--The term ``Oak Flat Withdrawal 
    Area'' means the approximately 760 acres of land depicted on the 
    map entitled ``Southeast Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act 
    of 2011-Oak Flat Withdrawal Area'' and dated March 2011.
        (7) Resolution copper.--The term ``Resolution Copper'' means 
    Resolution Copper Mining, LLC, a Delaware limited liability 
    company, including any successor, assign, affiliate, member, or 
    joint venturer of Resolution Copper Mining, LLC.
        (8) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    Agriculture.
        (9) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Arizona.
        (10) Town.--The term ``Town'' means the incorporated town of 
    Superior, Arizona.
        (11) Resolution mine plan of operations.--The term ``Resolution 
    mine plan of operations'' means the mine plan of operations 
    submitted to the Secretary by Resolution Copper in November, 2013, 
    including any amendments or supplements.
    (c) Land Exchange.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to the provisions of this section, if 
    Resolution Copper offers to convey to the United States all right, 
    title, and interest of Resolution Copper in and to the non-Federal 
    land, the Secretary is authorized and directed to convey to 
    Resolution Copper, all right, title, and interest of the United 
    States in and to the Federal land.
        (2) Conditions on acceptance.--Title to any non-Federal land 
    conveyed by Resolution Copper to the United States under this 
    section shall be in a form that--
            (A) is acceptable to the Secretary, for land to be 
        administered by the Forest Service and the Secretary of the 
        Interior, for land to be administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management; and
            (B) conforms to the title approval standards of the 
        Attorney General of the United States applicable to land 
        acquisitions by the Federal Government.
        (3) Consultation with indian tribes.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall engage in government-
        to-government consultation with affected Indian tribes 
        concerning issues of concern to the affected Indian tribes 
        related to the land exchange.
            (B) Implementation.--Following the consultations under 
        paragraph (A), the Secretary shall consult with Resolution 
        Copper and seek to find mutually acceptable measures to--
                (i) address the concerns of the affected Indian tribes; 
            and
                (ii) minimize the adverse effects on the affected 
            Indian tribes resulting from mining and related activities 
            on the Federal land conveyed to Resolution Copper under 
            this section.
        (4) Appraisals.--
            (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary and Resolution Copper 
        shall select an appraiser to conduct appraisals of the Federal 
        land and non-Federal land in compliance with the requirements 
        of section 254.9 of title 36, Code of Federal Regulations.
            (B) Requirements.--
                (i) In general.--Except as provided in clause (ii), an 
            appraisal prepared under this paragraph shall be conducted 
            in accordance with nationally recognized appraisal 
            standards, including--

                    (I) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal 
                Land Acquisitions; and
                    (II) the Uniform Standards of Professional 
                Appraisal Practice.

                (ii) Final appraised value.--After the final appraised 
            values of the Federal land and non-Federal land are 
            determined and approved by the Secretary, the Secretary 
            shall not be required to reappraise or update the final 
            appraised value--

                    (I) for a period of 3 years beginning on the date 
                of the approval by the Secretary of the final appraised 
                value; or
                    (II) at all, in accordance with section 254.14 of 
                title 36, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor 
                regulation), after an exchange agreement is entered 
                into by Resolution Copper and the Secretary.

                (iii) Improvements.--Any improvements made by 
            Resolution Copper prior to entering into an exchange 
            agreement shall not be included in the appraised value of 
            the Federal land.
                (iv) Public review.--Before consummating the land 
            exchange under this section, the Secretary shall make the 
            appraisals of the land to be exchanged (or a summary 
            thereof) available for public review.
            (C) Appraisal information.--The appraisal prepared under 
        this paragraph shall include a detailed income capitalization 
        approach analysis of the market value of the Federal land which 
        may be utilized, as appropriate, to determine the value of the 
        Federal land, and shall be the basis for calculation of any 
        payment under subsection (e).
        (5) Equal value land exchange.--
            (A) In general.--The value of the Federal land and non-
        Federal land to be exchanged under this section shall be equal 
        or shall be equalized in accordance with this paragraph.
            (B) Surplus of federal land value.--
                (i) In general.--If the final appraised value of the 
            Federal land exceeds the value of the non-Federal land, 
            Resolution Copper shall--

                    (I) convey additional non-Federal land in the State 
                to the Secretary or the Secretary of the Interior, 
                consistent with the requirements of this section and 
                subject to the approval of the applicable Secretary;
                    (II) make a cash payment to the United States; or
                    (III) use a combination of the methods described in 
                subclauses (I) and (II), as agreed to by Resolution 
                Copper, the Secretary, and the Secretary of the 
                Interior.

                (ii) Amount of payment.--The Secretary may accept a 
            payment in excess of 25 percent of the total value of the 
            land or interests conveyed, notwithstanding section 206(b) 
            of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
            U.S.C. 1716(b)).
                (iii) Disposition and use of proceeds.--Any amounts 
            received by the United States under this subparagraph shall 
            be deposited in the fund established under Public Law 90-
            171 (commonly known as the ``Sisk Act''; 16 U.S.C. 484a) 
            and shall be made available to the Secretary for the 
            acquisition of land or interests in land in Region 3 of the 
            Forest Service.
            (C) Surplus of non-federal land.--If the final appraised 
        value of the non-Federal land exceeds the value of the Federal 
        land--
                (i) the United States shall not make a payment to 
            Resolution Copper to equalize the value; and
                (ii) except as provided in subsection (h), the surplus 
            value of the non-Federal land shall be considered to be a 
            donation by Resolution Copper to the United States.
        (6) Oak flat withdrawal area.--
            (A) Permits.--Subject to the provisions of this paragraph 
        and notwithstanding any withdrawal of the Oak Flat Withdrawal 
        Area from the mining, mineral leasing, or public land laws, the 
        Secretary, upon enactment of this Act, shall issue to 
        Resolution Copper--
                (i) if so requested by Resolution Copper, within 30 
            days of such request, a special use permit to carry out 
            mineral exploration activities under the Oak Flat 
            Withdrawal Area from existing drill pads located outside 
            the Area, if the activities would not disturb the surface 
            of the Area; and
                (ii) if so requested by Resolution Copper, within 90 
            days of such request, a special use permit to carry out 
            mineral exploration activities within the Oak Flat 
            Withdrawal Area (but not within the Oak Flat Campground), 
            if the activities are conducted from a single exploratory 
            drill pad which is located to reasonably minimize visual 
            and noise impacts on the Campground.
            (B) Conditions.--Any activities undertaken in accordance 
        with this paragraph shall be subject to such reasonable terms 
        and conditions as the Secretary may require.
            (C) Termination.--The authorization for Resolution Copper 
        to undertake mineral exploration activities under this 
        paragraph shall remain in effect until the Oak Flat Withdrawal 
        Area land is conveyed to Resolution Copper in accordance with 
        this section.
        (7) Costs.--As a condition of the land exchange under this 
    section, Resolution Copper shall agree to pay, without 
    compensation, all costs that are--
            (A) associated with the land exchange and any environmental 
        review document under paragraph (9); and
            (B) agreed to by the Secretary.
        (8) Use of federal land.--The Federal land to be conveyed to 
    Resolution Copper under this section shall be available to 
    Resolution Copper for mining and related activities subject to and 
    in accordance with applicable Federal, State, and local laws 
    pertaining to mining and related activities on land in private 
    ownership.
        (9) Environmental compliance.--
            (A) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        section, the Secretary shall carry out the land exchange in 
        accordance with the requirements of the National Environmental 
        Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
            (B) Environmental analysis.--Prior to conveying Federal 
        land under this section, the Secretary shall prepare a single 
        environmental impact statement under the National Environmental 
        Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), which shall be 
        used as the basis for all decisions under Federal law related 
        to the proposed mine and the Resolution mine plan of operations 
        and any related major Federal actions significantly affecting 
        the quality of the human environment, including the granting of 
        any permits, rights-of-way, or approvals for the construction 
        of associated power, water, transportation, processing, 
        tailings, waste disposal, or other ancillary facilities.
            (C) Impacts on cultural and archeological resources.--The 
        environmental impact statement prepared under subparagraph (B) 
        shall--
                (i) assess the effects of the mining and related 
            activities on the Federal land conveyed to Resolution 
            Copper under this section on the cultural and archeological 
            resources that may be located on the Federal land; and
                (ii) identify measures that may be taken, to the extent 
            practicable, to minimize potential adverse impacts on those 
            resources, if any.
            (D) Effect.--Nothing in this paragraph precludes the 
        Secretary from using separate environmental review documents 
        prepared in accordance with the National Environmental Policy 
        Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) or other applicable laws 
        for exploration or other activities not involving--
                (i) the land exchange; or
                (ii) the extraction of minerals in commercial 
            quantities by Resolution Copper on or under the Federal 
            land.
        (10) Title transfer.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
    publication of the final environmental impact statement, the 
    Secretary shall convey all right, title, and interest of the United 
    States in and to the Federal land to Resolution Copper.
    (d) Conveyance and Management of Non-Federal Land.--
        (1) Conveyance.--On receipt of title to the Federal land, 
    Resolution Copper shall simultaneously convey--
            (A) to the Secretary, all right, title, and interest that 
        the Secretary determines to be acceptable in and to--
                (i) the approximately 147 acres of land located in Gila 
            County, Arizona, depicted on the map entitled ``Southeast 
            Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act of 2011-Non-
            Federal Parcel-Turkey Creek'' and dated March 2011;
                (ii) the approximately 148 acres of land located in 
            Yavapai County, Arizona, depicted on the map entitled 
            ``Southeast Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act of 
            2011-Non-Federal Parcel-Tangle Creek'' and dated March 
            2011;
                (iii) the approximately 149 acres of land located in 
            Maricopa County, Arizona, depicted on the map entitled 
            ``Southeast Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act of 
            2011-Non-Federal Parcel-Cave Creek'' and dated March 2011;
                (iv) the approximately 640 acres of land located in 
            Coconino County, Arizona, depicted on the map entitled 
            ``Southeast Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act of 
            2011-Non-Federal Parcel-East Clear Creek'' and dated March 
            2011; and
                (v) the approximately 110 acres of land located in 
            Pinal County, Arizona, depicted on the map entitled 
            ``Southeast Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act of 
            2011-Non-Federal Parcel-Apache Leap South End'' and dated 
            March 2011; and
            (B) to the Secretary of the Interior, all right, title, and 
        interest that the Secretary of the Interior determines to be 
        acceptable in and to--
                (i) the approximately 3,050 acres of land located in 
            Pinal County, Arizona, identified as ``Lands to DOI'' as 
            generally depicted on the map entitled ``Southeast Arizona 
            Land Exchange and Conservation Act of 2011-Non-Federal 
            Parcel-Lower San Pedro River'' and dated July 6, 2011;
                (ii) the approximately 160 acres of land located in 
            Gila and Pinal Counties, Arizona, identified as ``Lands to 
            DOI'' as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Southeast 
            Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act of 2011-Non-
            Federal Parcel-Dripping Springs'' and dated July 6, 2011; 
            and
                (iii) the approximately 940 acres of land located in 
            Santa Cruz County, Arizona, identified as ``Lands to DOI'' 
            as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Southeast 
            Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act of 2011-Non-
            Federal Parcel-Appleton Ranch'' and dated July 6, 2011.
        (2) Management of acquired land.--
            (A) Land acquired by the secretary.--
                (i) In general.--Land acquired by the Secretary under 
            this section shall--

                    (I) become part of the national forest in which the 
                land is located; and
                    (II) be administered in accordance with the laws 
                applicable to the National Forest System.

                (ii) Boundary revision.--On the acquisition of land by 
            the Secretary under this section, the boundaries of the 
            national forest shall be modified to reflect the inclusion 
            of the acquired land.
                (iii) Land and water conservation fund.--For purposes 
            of section 7 of the Land and Water Conservation Fund Act of 
            1965 (16 U.S.C. 4601-9), the boundaries of a national 
            forest in which land acquired by the Secretary is located 
            shall be deemed to be the boundaries of that forest as in 
            existence on January 1, 1965.
            (B) Land acquired by the secretary of the interior.--
                (i) San pedro national conservation area.--

                    (I) In general.--The land acquired by the Secretary 
                of the Interior under paragraph (1)(B)(i) shall be 
                added to, and administered as part of, the San Pedro 
                National Conservation Area in accordance with the laws 
                (including regulations) applicable to the Conservation 
                Area.
                    (II) Management plan.--Not later than 2 years after 
                the date on which the land is acquired, the Secretary 
                of the Interior shall update the management plan for 
                the San Pedro National Conservation Area to reflect the 
                management requirements of the acquired land.

                (ii) Dripping springs.--Land acquired by the Secretary 
            of the Interior under paragraph (1)(B)(ii) shall be managed 
            in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and Management 
            Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and applicable land 
            use plans.
                (iii) Las cienegas national conservation area.--Land 
            acquired by the Secretary of the Interior under paragraph 
            (1)(B)(iii) shall be added to, and administered as part of, 
            the Las Cienegas National Conservation Area in accordance 
            with the laws (including regulations) applicable to the 
            Conservation Area.
    (e) Value Adjustment Payment to United States.--
        (1) Annual production reporting.--
            (A) Report required.--As a condition of the land exchange 
        under this section, Resolution Copper shall submit to the 
        Secretary of the Interior an annual report indicating the 
        quantity of locatable minerals produced during the preceding 
        calendar year in commercial quantities from the Federal land 
        conveyed to Resolution Copper under subsection (c). The first 
        report is required to be submitted not later than February 15 
        of the first calendar year beginning after the date of 
        commencement of production of valuable locatable minerals in 
        commercial quantities from such Federal land. The reports shall 
        be submitted February 15 of each calendar year thereafter.
            (B) Sharing reports with state.--The Secretary shall make 
        each report received under subparagraph (A) available to the 
        State.
            (C) Report contents.--The reports under subparagraph (A) 
        shall comply with any recordkeeping and reporting requirements 
        prescribed by the Secretary or required by applicable Federal 
        laws in effect at the time of production.
        (2) Payment on production.--If the cumulative production of 
    valuable locatable minerals produced in commercial quantities from 
    the Federal land conveyed to Resolution Copper under subsection (c) 
    exceeds the quantity of production of locatable minerals from the 
    Federal land used in the income capitalization approach analysis 
    prepared under subsection (c)(4)(C), Resolution Copper shall pay to 
    the United States, by not later than March 15 of each applicable 
    calendar year, a value adjustment payment for the quantity of 
    excess production at the same rate assumed for the income 
    capitalization approach analysis prepared under subsection 
    (c)(4)(C).
        (3) State law unaffected.--Nothing in this subsection modifies, 
    expands, diminishes, amends, or otherwise affects any State law 
    relating to the imposition, application, timing, or collection of a 
    State excise or severance tax.
        (4) Use of funds.--
            (A) Separate fund.--All funds paid to the United States 
        under this subsection shall be deposited in a special fund 
        established in the Treasury and shall be available, in such 
        amounts as are provided in advance in appropriation Acts, to 
        the Secretary and the Secretary of the Interior only for the 
        purposes authorized by subparagraph (B).
            (B) Authorized use.--Amounts in the special fund 
        established pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be used for 
        maintenance, repair, and rehabilitation projects for Forest 
        Service and Bureau of Land Management assets.
    (f) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, Apache Leap and 
any land acquired by the United States under this section are withdrawn 
from all forms of--
        (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
    laws;
        (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
        (3) disposition under the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
    and geothermal leasing laws.
    (g) Apache Leap Special Management Area.--
        (1) Designation.--To further the purpose of this section, the 
    Secretary shall establish a special management area consisting of 
    Apache Leap, which shall be known as the ``Apache Leap Special 
    Management Area'' (referred to in this subsection as the ``special 
    management area'').
        (2) Purpose.--The purposes of the special management area are--
            (A) to preserve the natural character of Apache Leap;
            (B) to allow for traditional uses of the area by Native 
        American people; and
            (C) to protect and conserve the cultural and archeological 
        resources of the area.
        (3) Surrender of mining and extraction rights.--As a condition 
    of the land exchange under subsection (c), Resolution Copper shall 
    surrender to the United States, without compensation, all rights 
    held under the mining laws and any other law to commercially 
    extract minerals under Apache Leap.
        (4) Management.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the special 
        management area in a manner that furthers the purposes 
        described in paragraph (2).
            (B) Authorized activities.--The activities that are 
        authorized in the special management area are--
                (i) installation of seismic monitoring equipment on the 
            surface and subsurface to protect the resources located 
            within the special management area;
                (ii) installation of fences, signs, or other measures 
            necessary to protect the health and safety of the public; 
            and
                (iii) operation of an underground tunnel and associated 
            workings, as described in the Resolution mine plan of 
            operations, subject to any terms and conditions the 
            Secretary may reasonably require.
        (5) Plan.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with 
        affected Indian tribes, the Town, Resolution Copper, and other 
        interested members of the public, shall prepare a management 
        plan for the Apache Leap Special Management Area.
            (B) Considerations.--In preparing the plan under 
        subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall consider whether 
        additional measures are necessary to--
                (i) protect the cultural, archaeological, or historical 
            resources of Apache Leap, including permanent or seasonal 
            closures of all or a portion of Apache Leap; and
                (ii) provide access for recreation.
        (6) Mining activities.--The provisions of this subsection shall 
    not impose additional restrictions on mining activities carried out 
    by Resolution Copper adjacent to, or outside of, the Apache Leap 
    area beyond those otherwise applicable to mining activities on 
    privately owned land under Federal, State, and local laws, rules 
    and regulations.
    (h) Conveyances to Town of Superior, Arizona.--
        (1) Conveyances.--On request from the Town and subject to the 
    provisions of this subsection, the Secretary shall convey to the 
    Town the following:
            (A) Approximately 30 acres of land as depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Southeast Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act 
        of 2011-Federal Parcel-Fairview Cemetery'' and dated March 
        2011.
            (B) The reversionary interest and any reserved mineral 
        interest of the United States in the approximately 265 acres of 
        land located in Pinal County, Arizona, as depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Southeast Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act 
        of 2011-Federal Reversionary Interest-Superior Airport'' and 
        dated March 2011.
            (C) The approximately 250 acres of land located in Pinal 
        County, Arizona, as depicted on the map entitled ``Southeast 
        Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act of 2011-Federal 
        Parcel-Superior Airport Contiguous Parcels'' and dated March 
        2011.
        (2) Payment.--The Town shall pay to the Secretary the market 
    value for each parcel of land or interest in land acquired under 
    this subsection, as determined by appraisals conducted in 
    accordance with subsection (c)(4).
        (3) Sisk act.--Any payment received by the Secretary from the 
    Town under this subsection shall be deposited in the fund 
    established under Public Law 90-171 (commonly known as the ``Sisk 
    Act'') (16 U.S.C. 484a) and shall be made available to the 
    Secretary for the acquisition of land or interests in land in 
    Region 3 of the Forest Service.
        (4) Terms and conditions.--The conveyances under this 
    subsection shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the 
    Secretary may require.
    (i) Miscellaneous Provisions.--
        (1) Revocation of orders; withdrawal.--
            (A) Revocation of orders.--Any public land order that 
        withdraws the Federal land from appropriation or disposal under 
        a public land law shall be revoked to the extent necessary to 
        permit disposal of the land.
            (B) Withdrawal.--On the date of enactment of this Act, if 
        the Federal land or any Federal interest in the non-Federal 
        land to be exchanged under subsection (c) is not withdrawn or 
        segregated from entry and appropriation under a public land law 
        (including mining and mineral leasing laws and the Geothermal 
        Steam Act of 1970 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.)), the land or 
        interest shall be withdrawn, without further action required by 
        the Secretary concerned, from entry and appropriation. The 
        withdrawal shall be terminated--
                (i) on the date of consummation of the land exchange; 
            or
                (ii) if Resolution Copper notifies the Secretary in 
            writing that it has elected to withdraw from the land 
            exchange pursuant to section 206(d) of the Federal Land 
            Policy and Management Act of 1976, as amended (43 U.S.C. 
            1716(d)).
            (C) Rights of resolution copper.--Nothing in this section 
        shall interfere with, limit, or otherwise impair, the 
        unpatented mining claims or rights currently held by Resolution 
        Copper on the Federal land, nor in any way change, diminish, 
        qualify, or otherwise impact Resolution Copper's rights and 
        ability to conduct activities on the Federal land under such 
        unpatented mining claims and the general mining laws of the 
        United States, including the permitting or authorization of 
        such activities.
        (2) Maps, estimates, and descriptions.--
            (A) Minor errors.--The Secretary concerned and Resolution 
        Copper may correct, by mutual agreement, any minor errors in 
        any map, acreage estimate, or description of any land conveyed 
        or exchanged under this section.
            (B) Conflict.--If there is a conflict between a map, an 
        acreage estimate, or a description of land in this section, the 
        map shall control unless the Secretary concerned and Resolution 
        Copper mutually agree otherwise.
            (C) Availability.--On the date of enactment of this Act, 
        the Secretary shall file and make available for public 
        inspection in the Office of the Supervisor, Tonto National 
        Forest, each map referred to in this section.
        (3) Public access in and around oak flat campground.--As a 
    condition of conveyance of the Federal land, Resolution Copper 
    shall agree to provide access to the surface of the Oak Flat 
    Campground to members of the public, including Indian tribes, to 
    the maximum extent practicable, consistent with health and safety 
    requirements, until such time as the operation of the mine 
    precludes continued public access for safety reasons, as determined 
    by Resolution Copper.
SEC. 3004. LAND EXCHANGE, CIBOLA NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE, ARIZONA, AND 
BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT LAND IN RIVERSIDE COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section--
        (1) Map 1.--The term ``Map 1'' means the map entitled 
    ``Specified Parcel of Public Land in California'' and dated July 
    18, 2014.
        (2) Map 2.--The term ``Map 2'' means the map entitled ``River 
    Bottom Farm Lands'' and dated July 18, 2014.
    (b) Land Exchange.--
        (1) Conveyance of bureau of land management land.--In exchange 
    for the land described in paragraph (2), the Secretary of the 
    Interior shall convey to River Bottom Farms of La Paz County, 
    Arizona, all right, title and interest of the United States in and 
    to certain Federal land administered by the Secretary through the 
    Bureau of Land Management consisting of a total of approximately 80 
    acres in Riverside County, California, identified as ``Parcel A'' 
    on Map 1. The conveyed land shall be subject to valid existing 
    rights, including easements, rights-of-way, utility lines, and any 
    other valid encumbrances on the land as of the date of the 
    conveyance under this section.
        (2) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance of the 
    Federal land under paragraph (1), River Bottom Farms shall convey 
    to the United States all right, title, and interest of River Bottom 
    Farms in and to two parcels of land contiguous to the Cibola 
    National Wildlife Refuge in La Paz County, Arizona, consisting of a 
    total of approximately 40 acres in La Paz County, Arizona, 
    identified as ``Parcel 301-05-005B-9'' and ``Parcel 301-05-008-0'' 
    on Map 2.
        (3) Equal value exchange.--The values of the Federal land and 
    non-Federal land to be exchanged under this section shall be equal 
    or equalized by the payment of cash to the Secretary by River 
    Bottom Farms, if appropriate, pursuant to section 206(b) of the 
    Federal Land Policy Management Act (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)). The value 
    of the land shall be determined by the Secretary through an 
    appraisal performed by a qualified appraiser mutually agreed to by 
    the Secretary and River Bottom Farms and performed in conformance 
    with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions 
    (U.S. Department of Justice, December 2000). If the final appraised 
    value of the non-Federal land (``Parcel 301-05-005B-9'' and 
    ``Parcel 301-05-008-0'' on Map 2) exceeds the value of the Federal 
    land (``Parcel A'' on Map 1), the surplus value of the non-Federal 
    land shall be considered to be a donation by River Bottom Farms to 
    the United States.
        (4) Exchange timetable.--The Secretary shall complete the land 
    exchange under this section not later than 1 year after the date of 
    the expiration of any existing Bureau of Land Management lease 
    agreement or agreements affecting the Federal land (``Parcel A'' on 
    Map 1) to be exchanged under this section, unless the Secretary and 
    River Bottom Farms mutually agree to extend such deadline.
        (5) Administration of acquired land.--The land acquired by the 
    Secretary under paragraph (2) shall become part of the Cibola 
    National Wildlife Refuge and be administered in accordance with the 
    laws and regulations generally applicable to the National Wildlife 
    Refuge System.
SEC. 3005. SPECIAL RULES FOR INYO NATIONAL FOREST, CALIFORNIA, LAND 
EXCHANGE.
    (a) Authority To Accept Lands Outside Boundaries of Inyo National 
Forest.--In any land exchange involving the conveyance of certain 
National Forest System land located within the boundaries of Inyo 
National Forest in California, as shown on the map titled ``Federal 
Parcel Mammoth Base Facility'' and dated June 29, 2011, the Secretary 
of Agriculture may accept for acquisition in the exchange certain non-
Federal lands in California lying outside the boundaries of Inyo 
National Forest, as shown on the maps titled ``DWP Parcel - Interagency 
Visitor Center Parcel'' and ``DWP Parcel - Town of Bishop Parcel'' and 
dated June 29, 2011, if the Secretary determines that acquisition of 
the non-Federal lands is desirable for National Forest System purposes.
    (b) Cash Equalization Payment; Use.--In an exchange described in 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Agriculture may accept a cash 
equalization payment in excess of 25 percent. Any such cash 
equalization payment shall be deposited into the account in the 
Treasury of the United States established by Public Law 90-171 
(commonly known as the Sisk Act; 16 U.S.C. 484a) and shall be made 
available to the Secretary for the acquisition of land for addition to 
the National Forest System.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to grant the Secretary of Agriculture new land exchange 
authority. This section modifies the use of land exchange authorities 
already available to the Secretary as of the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
SEC. 3006. LAND EXCHANGE, TRINITY PUBLIC UTILITIES DISTRICT, TRINITY 
COUNTY, CALIFORNIA, THE BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, AND THE FOREST 
SERVICE.
    (a) Land Exchange Required.--If not later than three years after 
enactment of this Act, the Utilities District conveys to the Secretary 
of the Interior all right, title, and interest of the Utilities 
District in and to Parcel A, subject to such terms and conditions as 
the Secretary of the Interior may require, the Secretary of Agriculture 
shall convey Parcel B to the Utilities District, subject to such terms 
and conditions as the Secretary of Agriculture may require, including 
the reservation of easements for all roads and trails considered to be 
necessary for administrative purposes and to ensure public access to 
National Forest System lands.
    (b) Availability of Maps and Legal Descriptions.--Maps are entitled 
``Trinity County Land Exchange Act of 2014 - Parcel A'' and ``Trinity 
County Land Exchange Act of 2014 - Parcel B'', both dated March 24, 
2014. The maps shall be on file and available for public inspection in 
the Office of the Chief of the Forest Service and the appropriate 
office of the Bureau of Land Management. With the agreement of the 
parties to the conveyances under subsection (a), the Secretary of the 
Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture may make technical 
corrections to the maps and legal descriptions.
    (c) Equal Value Exchange.--
        (1) Land exchange process.--The land exchange under this 
    section shall be an equal value exchange. Except as provided in 
    paragraph (3), the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of 
    Agriculture shall carry out the land exchange in accordance with 
    section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
    (43 U.S.C. 1716).
        (2) Appraisal of parcels.--The values of Parcel A and Parcel B 
    shall by determined by appraisals performed by a qualified 
    appraiser mutually agreed to by the parties to the conveyances 
    under subsection (a). The appraisals shall be approved by the 
    Secretary of Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture and 
    conducted in conformity with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
    Federal Land.
        (3) Cash equalization.--If the values of Parcel A and Parcel B 
    are not equal, the values may be equalized through the use of a 
    cash equalization payment, however, if the final appraised value of 
    Parcel A exceeds the value of Parcel B, the surplus value of Parcel 
    A shall be considered to be a donation by the Utilities District. 
    Notwithstanding section 206(b) of the Federal Land Policy and 
    Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(b)), a cash equalization 
    payment may be made in excess of 25 percent of the appraised value 
    of the Parcel B.
    (d) Disposition of Proceeds.--
        (1) In general.--Any cash equalization payment received by the 
    United States under subsection (c) shall be deposited in the fund 
    established under Public Law 90-171 (16 U.S.C. 484a; commonly known 
    as the Sisk Act).
        (2) Use of proceeds.--Amounts deposited under paragraph (1) 
    shall be available to the Secretary of Agriculture, without further 
    appropriation and until expended, for the improvement, maintenance, 
    reconstruction, or construction of a facility or improvement for 
    the National Forest System.
    (e) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of Parcel A 
and Parcel B shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the 
Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture.
    (f) Costs.--As a condition of the land exchange under subsection 
(a), the Utilities District shall pay the costs associated with--
        (1) the surveys described in subsection (e);
        (2) the appraisals described in subsection (c)(2); and
        (3) any other reasonable administrative or remediation cost 
    determined by the Secretary of Agriculture.
    (g) Management of Acquired Land.--Upon the acquisition of Parcel A, 
the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Redding Field Office 
of the Bureau of Land Management, shall administer Parcel A as public 
land in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and the laws and regulations applicable 
to public land administered by the Bureau of Land Management, except 
that public recreation and public access to and for recreation shall be 
the highest and best use of Parcel A.
    (h) Completion of Land Exchange.--Once the Utilities District 
offers to convey Parcel A to the Secretary of the Interior, the 
Secretary of Agriculture shall complete the conveyance of Parcel B not 
later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (i) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
        (1) Parcel A.--The term ``Parcel A'' means the approximately 47 
    acres of land, known as the ``Sky Ranch parcel'', adjacent to 
    public land administered by the Redding Field Office of the Bureau 
    of Land Management as depicted on the map entitled ``Trinity County 
    Land Exchange Act of 2014 - Parcel A'', dated March 24, 2014, more 
    particularly described as a portion of Mineral Survey 178, south 
    Highway 299, generally located in the S1/2 of the S1/2 of Section 7 
    and the N1/2 of the N1/2 of Section 8, Township 33 North, Range 10 
    West, Mount Diablo Meridian.
        (2) Parcel B.--The term ``Parcel B'' means the approximately 
    100 acres land in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest in the State 
    of California near the Weaverville Airport in Trinity County as 
    depicted on the map entitled ``Trinity County Land Exchange Act of 
    2014 - Parcel B'' dated March 24, 2014, more particularly described 
    as Lot 8, SW1/4 SE1/4, and 
    S1/2 N1/2 SE, Section 31, Township 34 North, Range 9 West, Mount 
    Diablo Meridian.
        (3) Utilities district.--The term ``Utilities District'' means 
    the Trinity Public Utilities District of Trinity County, 
    California.
SEC. 3007. IDAHO COUNTY, IDAHO, SHOOTING RANGE LAND CONVEYANCE.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Idaho County in the 
    State of Idaho.
        (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Idaho 
    County Land Conveyance'' and dated April 11, 2014.
        (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
    (b) Conveyance of Land to Idaho County.--
        (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after notification by 
    the County and subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary 
    shall convey to the County, without consideration, all right, 
    title, and interest of the United States in and to the land 
    described in paragraph (2).
        (2) Description of land.--The land referred to in paragraph (1) 
    consists of approximately 31 acres of land managed by the Bureau of 
    Land Management and generally depicted on the map as 
    ``Conveyance_Area''.
        (3) Map and legal description.--
            (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall finalize the legal 
        description of the parcel to be conveyed under this section.
            (B) Minor errors.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        error in--
                (i) the map; or
                (ii) the legal description.
            (C) Availability.--The map and legal description shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
        (4) Use of conveyed land.--The land conveyed under this section 
    shall be used only--
            (A) as a shooting range; or
            (B) for any other public purpose consistent with uses 
        allowed under the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the 
        ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869 et 
        seq.).
        (5) Administrative costs.--The Secretary shall require the 
    County to pay all survey costs and other administrative costs 
    necessary for the preparation and completion of any patents for, 
    and transfers of title to, the land described in paragraph (2).
        (6) Conditions.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
    paragraph (1), the County shall agree--
            (A) to pay any administrative costs associated with the 
        conveyance including the costs of any environmental, wildlife, 
        cultural, or historical resources studies;
            (B) to release and indemnify the United States from any 
        claims or liabilities that may arise from uses carried out on 
        the land described in paragraph (2) on or before the date of 
        the enactment of this Act by the United States or any person; 
        and
            (C) to accept such reasonable terms and conditions as the 
        Secretary determines necessary.
        (7) Reversion.--If the land conveyed under this section ceases 
    to be used for a public purpose in accordance with paragraph (4), 
    the land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to the 
    United States.
SEC. 3008. SCHOOL DISTRICT 318, MINNESOTA, LAND EXCHANGE.
    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
        (1) to provide greater safety to the students of the Robert J. 
    Elkington Middle School and the families of those students in Grand 
    Rapids, Minnesota; and
        (2) to promote the mission of the United States Geological 
    Survey.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) District.--The term ``District'' means Minnesota 
    Independent School District number 318 in Grand Rapids, Minnesota.
        (2) Federal land.--
            (A) In general.--The term ``Federal land'' means the parcel 
        of approximately 1.3 acres of United States Geological Survey 
        land identified as USGS Parcel 91-016-4111 on the map, which 
        was transferred to the Department of the Interior by the 
        General Services Administration by a letter dated July 22, 
        1965.
            (B) Inclusion.--The term ``Federal land'' includes any 
        structures on the land described in subparagraph (A).
        (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means each of the maps entitled 
    ``USGS and School Parcel Locations'' and dated January 15, 2014.
        (4) Non-federal land.--
            (A) In general.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means the 
        parcel of approximately 1.6 acres of District land identified 
        as School Parcel 91-540-1210 on the map.
            (B) Inclusion.--The term ``non-Federal land'' includes any 
        structures on the land described in subparagraph (A).
        (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
    (c) Authorization of Exchange.--If the District offers to convey to 
the United States all right, title, and interest of the District in and 
to the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall--
        (1) accept the offer; and
        (2) convey to the District all right, title, and interest of 
    the United States in and to the Federal land.
    (d) Valuation.--
        (1) In general.--The value of the Federal land and non-Federal 
    land to be exchanged under subsection (c) shall be determined--
            (A) by an independent appraiser selected by the Secretary; 
        and
            (B) in accordance with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
        Federal Land Acquisitions and the Uniform Standards of 
        Professional Appraisal Practice.
        (2) Approval.--Appraisals conducted under paragraph (1) shall 
    be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
        (3) Cash equalization payments.--
            (A) In general.--If the value of the Federal land and non-
        Federal land to be exchanged under subsection (c) is not of 
        equal value, the value shall be equalized through a cash 
        equalization payment.
            (B) Use of amounts.--Amounts received by the United States 
        under subparagraph (A) shall be deposited in the Treasury and 
        credited to miscellaneous receipts.
SEC. 3009. NORTHERN NEVADA LAND CONVEYANCES.
    (a) Land Conveyance to Yerington, Nevada.--
        (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Yerington, 
        Nevada.
            (B) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the land 
        located in Lyon County and Mineral County, Nevada, that is 
        identified on the map as ``City of Yerington Sustainable 
        Development Conveyance Lands''.
            (C) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Yerington Land Conveyance'' and dated December 19, 2012.
            (D) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
        (2) Conveyances of land to city of yerington, nevada.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, subject to valid existing rights and to 
        such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines to be 
        necessary and notwithstanding the land use planning 
        requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), the 
        Secretary shall convey to the City, subject to the agreement of 
        the City, all right, title, and interest of the United States 
        in and to the Federal land identified on the map.
            (B) Appraisal to determine fair market value.--The 
        Secretary shall determine the fair market value of the Federal 
        land to be conveyed--
                (i) in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and 
            Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                (ii) based on an appraisal that is conducted in 
            accordance with--

                    (I) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal 
                Land Acquisition; and
                    (II) the Uniform Standards of Professional 
                Appraisal Practice.

            (C) Availability of map.--The map shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
        the Bureau of Land Management.
            (D) Applicable law.--Beginning on the date on which the 
        Federal land is conveyed to the City, the development of and 
        conduct of activities on the Federal land shall be subject to 
        all applicable Federal laws (including regulations).
            (E) Costs.--As a condition of the conveyance of the Federal 
        land under subparagraph (A), the City shall pay--
                (i) an amount equal to the appraised value determined 
            in accordance with subparagraph (B); and
                (ii) all costs related to the conveyance, including all 
            surveys, appraisals, and other administrative costs 
            associated with the conveyance of the Federal land to the 
            City under subparagraph (A).
        (3) Native american cultural and religious uses.--Nothing in 
    this subsection alters or diminishes the treaty rights of any 
    Indian tribe.
    (b) Conveyance of Certain Federal Land to City of Carlin, Nevada.--
        (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) City.--The term ``City'' means the City of Carlin, 
        Nevada.
            (B) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 1,329 acres of land located in the City of 
        Carlin, Nevada, that is identified on the map as ``Carlin 
        Selected Parcels''.
            (C) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Carlin, Nevada Land Sales'' map dated October 25, 
        2013.
            (D) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
        (2) Conveyance.--Subject to valid existing rights and 
    notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of sections 202 
    and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
    U.S.C. 1712, 1713), the Secretary shall convey to the City all 
    right, title, and interest of the United States to and in the 
    Federal land.
        (3) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance 
    authorized under paragraph (2), the City shall pay to the Secretary 
    an amount equal to the appraised value of the Federal land, as 
    determined under paragraph (4).
        (4) Appraisal.--The Secretary shall conduct an appraisal of the 
    Federal land in accordance with--
            (A) the Uniform Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions; 
        and
            (B) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
        Practice.
        (5) Availability of map.--The map shall be on file and 
    available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
    Bureau of Land Management.
        (6) Costs.--At closing for the conveyance authorized under 
    paragraph (2) the City shall pay or reimburse the Secretary, as 
    appropriate, for the reasonable transaction and administrative 
    personnel costs associated with the conveyance authorized under 
    such paragraph, including the costs of title searches, maps, and 
    boundary and cadastral surveys.
        (7) Release of united states.--Upon making the conveyance under 
    paragraph (2), notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
    United States is released from any and all liabilities or claims of 
    any kind or nature arising from the presence, release, or threat of 
    release of any hazardous substance, pollutant, contaminant, 
    petroleum product (or derivative of a petroleum product of any 
    kind), solid waste, mine materials or mining related features 
    (including tailings, overburden, waste rock, mill remnants, pits, 
    or other hazards resulting from the presence of mining related 
    features) on the Federal land in existence on or before the date of 
    the conveyance.
        (8) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal 
    land identified for conveyance shall be withdrawn from all forms 
    of--
            (A) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (C) disposition under the mineral leasing, mineral 
        materials and geothermal leasing laws.
    (c) Conveyance to the City of Fernley, Nevada.--
        (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Fernley, 
        Nevada.
            (B) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the land 
        located in the City that is identified as ``Proposed Sale 
        Parcels'' on the map.
            (C) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Fernley, Nevada, Land Sales'' and dated January 25, 
        2013.
            (D) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
        (2) Conveyance authorized.--Subject to valid existing rights 
    and notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of sections 
    202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
    (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), not later than 180 days after the date on 
    which the Secretary receives a request from the City for the 
    conveyance of the Federal land, the Secretary shall convey to the 
    City, without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the 
    United States to and in the Federal land.
        (3) Use of conveyed land.--
            (A) In general.--The Federal land conveyed under paragraph 
        (2)--
                (i) may be used by the City for any public purposes 
            consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as 
            the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869 
            et seq.); and
                (ii) shall not be disposed of by the City.
            (B) Reversion.--If the City ceases to use a parcel of the 
        Federal land conveyed under paragraph (2) in accordance with 
        subparagraph (A)--
                (i) title to the parcel shall revert to the Secretary, 
            at the option of the Secretary; and
                (ii) the City shall be responsible for any reclamation 
            necessary to revert the parcel to the United States.
        (4) Availability of map.--The map shall be on file and 
    available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
    Bureau of Land Management.
        (5) Reservation of easements and rights-of-way.--The City and 
    the Commissioner of Reclamation may retain easements or rights-of-
    way on the Federal land to be conveyed, including easements or 
    rights-of-way that the Commissioner of Reclamation determines are 
    necessary to carry out--
            (A) the operation and maintenance of the Truckee Canal 
        Irrigation District Canal; or
            (B) the Newlands Project.
        (6) Costs.--At closing for the conveyance authorized under 
    paragraph (2), the City shall pay or reimburse the Secretary, as 
    appropriate, for the reasonable transaction and administrative 
    personnel costs associated with the conveyance authorized under 
    that paragraph, including the costs of title searches, maps, and 
    boundary and cadastral surveys.
        (7) Release of united states.--On conveyance of the Federal 
    land under paragraph (2), notwithstanding any other provision of 
    law, the United States is released from any and all liabilities or 
    claims of any kind or nature arising from the presence, release, or 
    threat of release of any hazardous substance, pollutant, 
    contaminant, petroleum product (or derivative of a petroleum 
    product of any kind), solid waste, mine materials, or mining 
    related features (including tailings, overburden, waste rock, mill 
    remnants, pits, or other hazards resulting from the presence of 
    mining related features) on the Federal land in existence before or 
    on the date of the conveyance.
        (8) Acquisition of federal reversionary interest.--
            (A) Request.--After the date of conveyance of the Federal 
        land under paragraph (2), the City may submit to the Secretary 
        a request to acquire the Federal reversionary interest in all 
        or any portion of the Federal land.
            (B) Appraisal.--
                (i) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
            of receipt of a request under subparagraph (A), the 
            Secretary shall complete an appraisal of the Federal 
            reversionary interest in the Federal land requested by the 
            City under that subparagraph.
                (ii) Requirement.--The appraisal under clause (i) shall 
            be completed in accordance with--

                    (I) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal 
                Land Acquisitions; and
                    (II) the Uniform Standards of Professional 
                Appraisal Practice.

            (C) Conveyance required.--If, by the date that is 1 year 
        after the date of completion of the appraisal under 
        subparagraph (B), the City submits to the Secretary an offer to 
        acquire the Federal reversionary requested under subparagraph 
        (A), the Secretary shall, not later than the date that is 30 
        days after the date on which the offer is submitted, convey to 
        the City the reversionary interest covered by the offer.
            (D) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance of 
        the Federal reversionary interest under subparagraph (C), the 
        City shall pay to the Secretary an amount equal to the 
        appraised value of the Federal reversionary interest, as 
        determined under subparagraph (B).
            (E) Costs of conveyance.--As a condition of the conveyance 
        under subparagraph (C), all costs associated with the 
        conveyance (including the cost of the appraisal under 
        subparagraph (B)), shall be paid by the City.
    (d) Conveyance of Federal Land, Storey County, Nevada.--
        (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) County.--The term ``County'' means Storey County, 
        Nevada.
            (B) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 1,745 acres of Federal land identified on the map 
        as ``BLM Owned-County Request Transfer''.
            (C) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Restoring Storey County Act'' and dated November 20, 2012.
            (D) Mining townsite.--The term ``mining townsite'' means 
        the real property--
                (i) located in the Virginia City townsite within the 
            County;
                (ii) owned by the Federal Government; and
                (iii) on which improvements were constructed based on 
            the belief that--

                    (I) the property had been or would be acquired from 
                the Federal Government by the entity operating the 
                relevant mine on the date of construction; or
                    (II) the individual or entity that made the 
                improvements had a valid claim for acquiring the 
                property from the Federal Government.

            (E) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
        (2) Mining claim validity review.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out an expedited 
        program to examine each unpatented mining claim (including each 
        unpatented mining claim for which a patent application has been 
        filed) within the mining townsite.
            (B) Determination of validity.--With respect to a mining 
        claim described in subparagraph (A), if the Secretary 
        determines that the elements of a contest are present, the 
        Secretary shall immediately determine the validity of the 
        mining claim.
            (C) Declaration by secretary.--If the Secretary determines 
        a mining claim to be invalid under subparagraph (B), as soon as 
        practicable after the date of the determination, the Secretary 
        shall declare the mining claim to be null and void.
            (D) Treatment of valid mining claims.--
                (i) In general.--Each mining claim that the Secretary 
            determines to be valid under subparagraph (B) shall be 
            maintained in compliance with the general mining laws and 
            paragraph (3)(B)(ii).
                (ii) Effect on holders.--A holder of a mining claim 
            described in clause (i) shall not be entitled to a patent.
            (E) Abandonment of claim.--The Secretary shall provide--
                (i) a public notice that each mining claim holder may 
            affirmatively abandon the claim of the mining claim holder 
            prior to the validity review under subparagraph (B); and
                (ii) to each mining claim holder an opportunity to 
            abandon the claim of the mining claim holder before the 
            date on which the land that is subject to the mining claim 
            is conveyed.
        (3) Conveyance to county.--
            (A) Conveyance.--
                (i) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights and 
            notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of 
            sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and 
            Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), after 
            completing the mining claim validity review under paragraph 
            (2)(B), if requested by the County, the Secretary shall 
            convey to the County, by quitclaim deed, all surface rights 
            of the United States in and to the Federal land, including 
            any improvements on the Federal land, in accordance with 
            this paragraph.
                (ii) Reservation of rights.--All mineral and geothermal 
            rights in and to the Federal land are reserved to the 
            United States.
            (B) Valid mining claims.--
                (i) In general.--With respect to each parcel of land 
            located in a mining townsite subject to a valid mining 
            claim, the Secretary shall--

                    (I) reserve the mineral rights in and to the mining 
                townsite; and
                    (II) otherwise convey, without consideration, the 
                remaining right, title, and interest of the United 
                States in and to the mining townsite (including 
                improvements to the mining townsite), as identified for 
                conveyance on the map.

                (ii) Procedures and requirements.--Each valid mining 
            claim shall be subject to each procedure and requirement 
            described in section 9 of the Act of December 29, 1916 (43 
            U.S.C. 299) (commonly known as the ``Stockraising Homestead 
            Act of 1916'') (including regulations).
        (4) Recipients.--
            (A) In general.--In the case of a mining townsite conveyed 
        under paragraph (3)(B)(i)(II) for which a valid interest is 
        proven by 1 or more individuals in accordance with chapter 
        244.2825 of the Nevada Revised Statutes, the County shall 
        reconvey the property to the 1 or more individuals by 
        appropriate deed or other legal conveyance in accordance with 
        that chapter.
            (B) Authority of county.--The County shall not be required 
        to recognize a claim under this paragraph that is submitted on 
        a date that is later than 5 years after the date of enactment 
        of this Act.
        (5) Valid existing rights.--The conveyance of a mining townsite 
    under paragraph (3) shall be subject to valid existing rights, 
    including any easement or other right-of-way or lease in existence 
    as of the date of the conveyance.
        (6) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid rights in existence on the 
    date of enactment of this Act, and except as otherwise provided in 
    this Act, the mining townsite is withdrawn from--
            (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (C) disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
        (7) Survey.--A mining townsite to be conveyed by the United 
    States under paragraph (3) shall be sufficiently surveyed as a 
    whole to legally describe the land for patent conveyance.
        (8) Conveyance of terminated mining claims.--If a mining claim 
    determined by the Secretary to be valid under paragraph (2)(B) is 
    abandoned, invalidated, or otherwise returned to the Bureau of Land 
    Management, the mining claim shall be--
            (A) withdrawn in accordance with paragraph (6); and
            (B) subject to the agreement of the owner, conveyed to the 
        owner of the surface rights covered by the mining claim.
        (9) Release.--On completion of the conveyance of a mining 
    townsite under paragraph (3), the United States shall be relieved 
    from liability for, and shall be held harmless from, any claim 
    arising from the presence of an improvement or material on the 
    mining townsite.
        (10) Sense of congress regarding deadline for review and 
    conveyances.--It is the sense of Congress that the examination of 
    the unpatented mining claims under paragraph (2) and the 
    conveyances under paragraph (3) should be completed by not later 
    than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (e) Elko Motocross Land Conveyance.--
        (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) County.--The term ``county'' means the county of Elko, 
        Nevada.
            (B) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Elko 
        Motocross Park'' and dated April 19, 2013.
            (C) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of 
        Land Management.
        (2) Authorization of conveyance.--As soon as practicable after 
    the date of enactment of this Act, subject to valid existing rights 
    and the provisions of this subsection, if requested by the county 
    the Secretary shall convey to the county, without consideration, 
    all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
    land described in paragraph (3).
        (3) Description of land.--The land referred to in paragraph (2) 
    consists of approximately 275 acres of land managed by the Bureau 
    of Land Management, Elko District, Nevada, as generally depicted on 
    the map as ``Elko Motocross Park''.
        (4) Map and legal description.--
            (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall finalize the legal 
        description of the parcel to be conveyed under this subsection.
            (B) Minor errors.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        error in the map or the legal description.
            (C) Availability.--The map and legal description shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
        (5) Use of conveyed land.--The land conveyed under this 
    subsection shall be used only as a motocross, bicycle, off-highway 
    vehicle, or stock car racing area, or for any other public purpose 
    consistent with uses allowed under the Act of June 14, 1926 
    (commonly known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (43 
    U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
        (6) Administrative costs.--The Secretary shall require the 
    county to pay all survey costs and other administrative costs 
    necessary for the preparation and completion of any patents for, 
    and transfers of title to, the land described in paragraph (3).
    (f) Land to Be Held in Trust for the Te-moak Tribe of Western 
Shoshone Indians of Nevada (Elko Band).--
        (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Te-moak 
        Tribal Land Expansion'' and dated April 19, 2013.
            (B) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of 
        Land Management.
            (C) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Te-moak Tribe of 
        Western Shoshone Indians of Nevada (Elko Band).
        (2) Land to be held in trust.--Subject to valid existing 
    rights, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and 
    to the land described in paragraph (3)--
            (A) shall be held in trust by the United States for the 
        benefit and use of the Tribe; and
            (B) shall be part of the reservation of the Tribe.
        (3) Description of land.--The land referred to in paragraph (2) 
    is the approximately 373 acres of land administered by the Bureau 
    of Land Management, as generally depicted on the map as ``Expansion 
    Area''.
        (4) Map.--The map shall be on file and available for public 
    inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
    Management.
        (5) Survey.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall complete a survey of the 
    boundary lines to establish the boundaries of the land taken into 
    trust under paragraph (2).
        (6) Use of trust land.--
            (A) Gaming.--Land taken into trust under paragraph (2) 
        shall not be eligible, or considered to have been taken into 
        trust, for class II gaming or class III gaming (as those terms 
        are defined in section 4 of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act 
        (25 U.S.C. 2703)).
            (B) General uses.--
                (i) In general.--The Tribe shall use the land taken 
            into trust under paragraph (2) only for--

                    (I) traditional and customary uses;
                    (II) stewardship conservation for the benefit of 
                the Tribe; or
                    (III) residential or recreational development.

                (ii) Other uses.--If the Tribe uses any portion of the 
            land taken into trust under paragraph (2) for a purpose 
            other than a purpose described in clause (i), the Tribe 
            shall pay to the Secretary an amount that is equal to the 
            fair market value of the portion of the land, as determined 
            by an appraisal.
            (C) Thinning; landscape restoration.--With respect to the 
        land taken into trust under paragraph (2), the Secretary, in 
        consultation and coordination with the Tribe, may carry out any 
        fuels reduction and other landscape restoration activities on 
        the land that is beneficial to the Tribe and the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (g) Naval Air Station Fallon Land Conveyance.--
        (1) Transfer of department of the interior land.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
        transfer to the Secretary of the Navy, without reimbursement, 
        the Federal land described in subparagraph (B).
            (B) Description of federal land.--The Federal land referred 
        to in subparagraph (A) is the parcel of approximately 400 acres 
        of land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior 
        that--
                (i) is adjacent to Naval Air Station Fallon in 
            Churchill County, Nevada; and
                (ii) was withdrawn under Public Land Order 6834 (NV-
            943-4214-10; N-37875).
            (C) Management.--On transfer of the Federal land described 
        under subparagraph (B) to the Secretary of the Navy, the 
        Secretary of the Navy shall have full jurisdiction, custody, 
        and control of the Federal land.
        (2) Water rights.--
            (A) Water rights.--Nothing in this subsection shall be 
        construed--
                (i) to establish a reservation in favor of the United 
            States with respect to any water or water right on land 
            transferred by this subsection; or
                (ii) to authorize the appropriation of water on land 
            transferred by this subsection except in accordance with 
            applicable State law.
            (B) Effect on previously acquired or reserved water 
        rights.--This subsection shall not be construed to affect any 
        water rights acquired or reserved by the United States before 
        the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3010. SAN JUAN COUNTY, NEW MEXICO, FEDERAL LAND CONVEYANCE.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
    approximately 19 acres of Federal surface estate generally depicted 
    as ``Lands Authorized for Conveyance'' on the map.
        (2) Landowner.--The term ``landowner'' means the plaintiffs in 
    the case styled Blancett v. United States Department of the 
    Interior, et al., No. 10-cv-00254-JAP-KBM, United States District 
    Court for the District of New Mexico.
        (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``San Juan 
    County Land Conveyance'' and dated June 20, 2012.
        (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New Mexico.
    (b) Conveyance of Certain Federal Land in San Juan County, New 
Mexico.--
        (1) In general.--On request of the landowner, the Secretary 
    shall, under such terms and conditions as the Secretary may 
    prescribe and subject to valid existing rights, convey to the 
    landowner all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
    and to any portion of the Federal land (including any improvements 
    or appurtenances to the Federal land) by sale.
        (2) Survey; administrative costs.--
            (A) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of the 
        Federal land to be conveyed under paragraph (1) shall be 
        determined by a survey approved by the Secretary.
            (B) Costs.--The administrative costs associated with the 
        conveyance shall be paid by the landowner.
        (3) Consideration.--
            (A) In general.--As consideration for the conveyance of the 
        Federal land under paragraph (1), the landowner shall pay to 
        the Secretary an amount equal to the fair market value of the 
        Federal land conveyed, as determined under subparagraph (B).
            (B) Appraisal.--The fair market value of any Federal land 
        that is conveyed under paragraph (1) shall be determined by an 
        appraisal acceptable to the Secretary that is performed in 
        accordance with--
                (i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
            Acquisitions;
                (ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
            Practice; and
                (iii) any other applicable law (including regulations).
        (4) Disposition and use of proceeds.--
            (A) Disposition of proceeds.--The Secretary shall deposit 
        the proceeds of any conveyance of Federal land under paragraph 
        (1) in a special account in the Treasury for use in accordance 
        with subparagraph (B).
            (B) Use of proceeds.--Amounts deposited under subparagraph 
        (A) shall be available to the Secretary, without further 
        appropriation and until expended, for the acquisition of land 
        or interests in land from willing sellers in the State or the 
        State of Arizona for bald eagle habitat protection.
        (5) Additional terms and conditions.--The Secretary may require 
    such additional terms and conditions for a conveyance under 
    paragraph (1) as the Secretary determines to be appropriate to 
    protect the interests of the United States.
        (6) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal 
    land is withdrawn from--
            (A) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (B) disposition under all laws relating to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
SEC. 3011. LAND CONVEYANCE, UINTA-WASATCH-CACHE NATIONAL FOREST, UTAH.
    (a) Conveyance Required.--On the request of Brigham Young 
University submitted to the Secretary of Agriculture not later than one 
year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
convey, not later than one year after receiving the request, to Brigham 
Young University all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to an approximately 80-acre parcel of National Forest System land 
in the Uinta-Wasatch-Cache National Forest in the State of Utah, as 
generally depicted on the map entitled ``Upper Y Mountain Trail and Y 
Conveyance Act'' and dated June 6, 2013, subject to valid existing 
rights and by quitclaim deed.
    (b) Consideration.--
        (1) Consideration required.--As consideration for the land 
    conveyed under subsection (a), Brigham Young University shall pay 
    to the Secretary an amount equal to the fair market value of the 
    land, as determined by an appraisal approved by the Secretary and 
    conducted in conformity with the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
    Federal Land Acquisitions and section 206 of the Federal Land 
    Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716).
        (2) Deposit.--The consideration received by the Secretary under 
    paragraph (1) shall be deposited in the general fund of the 
    Treasury to reduce the Federal deficit.
    (c)  Public Access to Y Mountain Trail.--After the conveyance under 
subsection (a), Brigham Young University will--
        (1) continue to allow the same reasonable public access to the 
    trailhead and portion of the Y Mountain Trail already owned by 
    Brigham Young University as of the date of the enactment of this 
    Act that Brigham Young University has historically allowed; and
        (2) allow that same reasonable public access to the portion of 
    the Y Mountain Trail and the ``Y'' symbol located on the land 
    described in subsection (a).
    (d) Survey and Administrative Costs.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the land to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary. Brigham Young 
University shall pay the reasonable costs of survey, appraisal, and any 
administrative analyses required by law.
SEC. 3012. CONVEYANCE OF CERTAIN LAND TO THE CITY OF FRUIT HEIGHTS, 
UTAH.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Fruit Heights, 
    Utah.
        (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Proposed 
    Fruit Heights City Conveyance'' and dated September 13, 2012.
        (3) National forest system land.--The term ``National Forest 
    System land'' means the approximately 100 acres of National Forest 
    System land, as depicted on the map.
        (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    Agriculture.
    (b) In General.--The Secretary shall convey to the City, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the National Forest System land.
    (c) Survey.--
        (1) In general.--If determined by the Secretary to be 
    necessary, the exact acreage and legal description of the National 
    Forest System land shall be determined by a survey approved by the 
    Secretary.
        (2) Costs.--The City shall pay the reasonable survey and other 
    administrative costs associated with a survey conducted under 
    paragraph (1).
    (d) Easement.--As a condition of the conveyance under subsection 
(b), the Secretary shall reserve an easement to the National Forest 
System land for the Bonneville Shoreline Trail.
    (e) Use of National Forest System Land.--As a condition of the 
conveyance under subsection (b), the City shall use the National Forest 
System land only for public purposes.
    (f) Reversionary Interest.--In the quitclaim deed to the City for 
the National Forest System land, the Secretary shall provide that the 
National Forest System land shall revert to the Secretary, at the 
election of the Secretary, if the National Forest System land is used 
for other than a public purpose.
SEC. 3013. LAND CONVEYANCE, HANFORD SITE, WASHINGTON.
    (a) Conveyance Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than September 30, 2015, the 
    Secretary of Energy shall convey to the Community Reuse 
    Organization of the Hanford Site (in this section referred to as 
    the ``Organization'') all right, title, and interest of the United 
    States in and to two parcels of real property, including any 
    improvements thereon, consisting of approximately 1,341 acres and 
    300 acres, respectively, of the Hanford Reservation, as requested 
    by the Organization on May 31, 2011, and October 13, 2011, and as 
    depicted within the proposed boundaries on the map titled 
    ``Attachment 2-Revised Map'' included in the October 13, 2011, 
    letter.
        (2) Modification of conveyance.--Upon the agreement of the 
    Secretary and the Organization, the Secretary may adjust the 
    boundaries of one or both of the parcels specified for conveyance 
    under paragraph (1).
    (b) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance under 
subsection (a), the Organization shall pay to the United States an 
amount equal to the estimated fair market value of the conveyed real 
property, as determined by the Secretary of Energy, except that the 
Secretary may convey the property without consideration or for 
consideration below the estimated fair market value of the property if 
the Organization--
        (1) agrees that the net proceeds from any sale or lease of the 
    property (or any portion thereof) received by the Organization 
    during at least the seven-year period beginning on the date of such 
    conveyance will be used to support the economic redevelopment of, 
    or related to, the Hanford Site; and
        (2) executes the agreement for such conveyance and accepts 
    control of the real property within a reasonable time.
    (c) Expedited Notification to Congress.--Except as provided in 
subsection (d)(2), the enactment of this section shall be construed to 
satisfy any notice to Congress otherwise required for the land 
conveyance required by this section.
    (d) Additional Terms and Conditions.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Energy may require such 
    additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance 
    under subsection (a) as the Secretary deems necessary to protect 
    the interests of the United States.
        (2) Congressional notification.--If the Secretary uses the 
    authority provided by paragraph (1) to impose a term or condition 
    on the conveyance, the Secretary shall submit to Congress written 
    notice of the term or condition and the reason for imposing the 
    term or condition.
SEC. 3014. RANCH A WYOMING CONSOLIDATION AND MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service.
        (2) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Wyoming.
    (b) Conveyance.--
        (1) In general.--Upon the request of the State submitted to the 
    Secretary not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
    this Act, the Secretary shall convey to the State, without 
    consideration and by quitclaim deed, all right, title and interest 
    of the United States in and to the parcel of National Forest System 
    land described in paragraph (2).
        (2) Description of land.--The parcel of land referred to in 
    paragraph (1) is approximately 10 acres of National Forest System 
    land located on the Black Hills National Forest, in Crook County, 
    State of Wyoming more specifically described as the E\1/2\ NE\1/4\ 
    NW\1/4\ SE\1/4\ less the south 50 feet, W\1/2\ NW\1/4\ NE\1/4\ 
    SE\1/4\ less the south 50 feet, Section 24, Township 52 North, 
    Range 61 West Sixth P.M.
        (3) Terms and conditions.--The conveyance under paragraph (1) 
    shall be--
            (A) subject to valid existing rights; and
            (B) made notwithstanding the requirements of subsection (a) 
        of section 1 of Public Law 104-276.
        (4) Survey.--If determined by the Secretary to be necessary, 
    the exact acreage and legal description of the land to be conveyed 
    under paragraph (1) shall be determined by a survey that is 
    approved by the Secretary and paid for by the State.
    (c) Amendments.--Section 1 of the Act of October 9, 1996 (Public 
Law 104-276) is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (b); and
        (2) by designating subsection (c) as subsection (b).

     Subtitle B--Public Lands and National Forest System Management

SEC. 3021. BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT PERMIT PROCESSING.
    (a) Program to Improve Federal Permit Coordination.--Section 365 of 
the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15924) is amended--
        (1) in the section heading, by striking ``pilot'';
        (2) by striking ``Pilot Project'' each place it appears and 
    inserting ``Project'';
        (3) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``Wyoming, Montana, 
    Colorado, Utah, and New Mexico'' and inserting ``the States in 
    which Project offices are located'';
        (4) in subsection (d)--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Pilot''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(8) Any other State, district, or field office of the Bureau 
    of Land Management determined by the Secretary.'';
        (5) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the following:
    ``(e) Report to Congress.--Not later than February 1 of the first 
fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 and each February 1 
thereafter, the Secretary shall report to the Chairman and ranking 
minority Member of the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives, which shall include--
        ``(1) the allocation of funds to each Project office for the 
    previous fiscal year; and
        ``(2) the accomplishments of each Project office relating to 
    the coordination and processing of oil and gas use authorizations 
    during that fiscal year.'';
        (6) in subsection (h), by striking paragraph (6) and inserting 
    the following:
        ``(6) the States in which Project offices are located.'';
        (7) by striking subsection (i); and
        (8) by redesignating subsection (j) as subsection (i).
    (b) BLM Oil and Gas Permit Processing Fee.--Section 35 of the 
Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(d) BLM Oil and Gas Permit Processing Fee.--
        ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
    for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2026, the Secretary, acting 
    through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, shall 
    collect a fee for each new application for a permit to drill that 
    is submitted to the Secretary.
        ``(2) Amount.--The amount of the fee shall be $9,500 for each 
    new application, as indexed for United States dollar inflation from 
    October 1, 2015 (as measured by the Consumer Price Index).
        ``(3) Use.--Of the fees collected under this subsection for a 
    fiscal year, the Secretary shall transfer--
            ``(A) for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2019--
                ``(i) 15 percent to the field offices that collected 
            the fees and used to process protests, leases, and permits 
            under this Act, subject to appropriation; and
                ``(ii) 85 percent to the BLM Permit Processing 
            Improvement Fund established under subsection (c)(2)(B) 
            (referred to in this subsection as the `Fund'); and
            ``(B) for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2026, all of 
        the fees to the Fund.
        ``(4) Additional costs.--During each of fiscal years of 2016 
    through 2026, the Secretary shall not implement a rulemaking that 
    would enable an increase in fees to recover additional costs 
    related to processing applications for permits to drill.''.
    (c) BLM Permit Processing Improvement Fund.--
        (1) In general.--Section 35(c) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 
    U.S.C. 191(c)) is amended by striking paragraph (3) and inserting 
    the following:
        ``(3) Use of fund.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Fund shall be available to the 
        Secretary of the Interior for expenditure, without further 
        appropriation and without fiscal year limitation, for the 
        coordination and processing of oil and gas use authorizations 
        on onshore Federal and Indian trust mineral estate land.
            ``(B) Accounts.--The Secretary shall divide the Fund into--
                ``(i) a Rental Account (referred to in this subsection 
            as the `Rental Account') comprised of rental receipts 
            collected under this section; and
                ``(ii) a Fee Account (referred to in this subsection as 
            the `Fee Account') comprised of fees collected under 
            subsection (d).
        ``(4) Rental account.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall use the Rental 
        Account for--
                ``(i) the coordination and processing of oil and gas 
            use authorizations on onshore Federal and Indian trust 
            mineral estate land under the jurisdiction of the Project 
            offices identified under section 365(d) of the Energy 
            Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15924(d)); and
                ``(ii) training programs for development of expertise 
            related to coordinating and processing oil and gas use 
            authorizations.
            ``(B) Allocation.--In determining the allocation of the 
        Rental Account among Project offices for a fiscal year, the 
        Secretary shall consider--
                ``(i) the number of applications for permit to drill 
            received in a Project office during the previous fiscal 
            year;
                ``(ii) the backlog of applications described in clause 
            (i) in a Project office;
                ``(iii) publicly available industry forecasts for 
            development of oil and gas resources under the jurisdiction 
            of a Project office; and
                ``(iv) any opportunities for partnership with local 
            industry organizations and educational institutions in 
            developing training programs to facilitate the coordination 
            and processing of oil and gas use authorizations.
        ``(5) Fee account.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall use the Fee Account 
        for the coordination and processing of oil and gas use 
        authorizations on onshore Federal and Indian trust mineral 
        estate land.
            ``(B) Allocation.--The Secretary shall transfer not less 
        than 75 percent of the revenues collected by an office for the 
        processing of applications for permits to the State office of 
        the State in which the fees were collected.''.
        (2) Interest on overpayment adjustment.--Section 111(h) of the 
    Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act of 1982 (30 U.S.C. 
    1721(h)) is amended in the first sentence by striking ``the rate'' 
    and all that follows through the period at the end of the sentence 
    and inserting ``a rate equal to the sum of the Federal short-term 
    rate determined under section 6621(b) of the Internal Revenue Code 
    of 1986 plus 1 percentage point.''.
SEC. 3022. INTERNET-BASED ONSHORE OIL AND GAS LEASE SALES.
    (a) Authorization.--Section 17(b)(1) of the Mineral Leasing Act (30 
U.S.C. 226(b)(1)) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), in the third sentence, by inserting 
    ``, except as provided in subparagraph (C)'' after ``by oral 
    bidding''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(C) In order to diversify and expand the Nation's onshore leasing 
program to ensure the best return to the Federal taxpayer, reduce 
fraud, and secure the leasing process, the Secretary may conduct 
onshore lease sales through Internet-based bidding methods. Each 
individual Internet-based lease sale shall conclude within 7 days.''.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the tenth Internet-based 
lease sale conducted under the amendment made by subsection (a), the 
Secretary of the Interior shall analyze the first 10 such lease sales 
and report to Congress the findings of the analysis. The report shall 
include--
        (1) estimates on increases or decreases in such lease sales, 
    compared to sales conducted by oral bidding, in--
            (A) the number of bidders;
            (B) the average amount of bid;
            (C) the highest amount bid; and
            (D) the lowest bid;
        (2) an estimate on the total cost or savings to the Department 
    of the Interior as a result of such sales, compared to sales 
    conducted by oral bidding; and
        (3) an evaluation of the demonstrated or expected effectiveness 
    of different structures for lease sales which may provide an 
    opportunity to better maximize bidder participation, ensure the 
    highest return to the Federal taxpayers, minimize opportunities for 
    fraud or collusion, and ensure the security and integrity of the 
    leasing process.
SEC. 3023. GRAZING PERMITS AND LEASES.
    Section 402 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
(43 U.S.C. 1752) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (c)--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as 
        subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), respectively;
            (B) by striking ``So long as'' and inserting the following:
        ``(1) Renewal of expiring or transferred permit or lease.--
    During any period in which''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(2) Continuation of terms under new permit or lease.--The 
    terms and conditions in a grazing permit or lease that has expired, 
    or was terminated due to a grazing preference transfer, shall be 
    continued under a new permit or lease until the date on which the 
    Secretary concerned completes any environmental analysis and 
    documentation for the permit or lease required under the National 
    Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other 
    applicable laws.
        ``(3) Completion of processing.--As of the date on which the 
    Secretary concerned completes the processing of a grazing permit or 
    lease in accordance with paragraph (2), the permit or lease may be 
    canceled, suspended, or modified, in whole or in part.
        ``(4) Environmental reviews.--The Secretary concerned shall 
    seek to conduct environmental reviews on an allotment or multiple 
    allotment basis, to the extent practicable, if the allotments share 
    similar ecological conditions, for purposes of compliance with the 
    National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) 
    and other applicable laws.'';
        (2) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (j); and
        (3) by inserting after subsection (g) the following:
    ``(h) National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.--
        ``(1) In general.--The issuance of a grazing permit or lease by 
    the Secretary concerned may be categorically excluded from the 
    requirement to prepare an environmental assessment or an 
    environmental impact statement under the National Environmental 
    Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) if--
            ``(A) the issued permit or lease continues the current 
        grazing management of the allotment; and
            ``(B) the Secretary concerned--
                ``(i) has assessed and evaluated the grazing allotment 
            associated with the lease or permit; and
                ``(ii) based on the assessment and evaluation under 
            clause (i), has determined that the allotment--

                    ``(I) with respect to public land administered by 
                the Secretary of the Interior--

                        ``(aa) is meeting land health standards; or
                        ``(bb) is not meeting land health standards due 
                    to factors other than existing livestock grazing; 
                    or

                    ``(II) with respect to National Forest System land 
                administered by the Secretary of Agriculture--

                        ``(aa) is meeting objectives in the applicable 
                    land and resource management plan; or
                        ``(bb) is not meeting the objectives in the 
                    applicable land resource management plan due to 
                    factors other than existing livestock grazing.
        ``(2) Trailing and crossing.--The trailing and crossing of 
    livestock across public land and National Forest System land and 
    the implementation of trailing and crossing practices by the 
    Secretary concerned may be categorically excluded from the 
    requirement to prepare an environmental assessment or an 
    environmental impact statement under the National Environmental 
    Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
    ``(i) Priority and Timing for Completion of Environmental 
Analyses.--The Secretary concerned, in the sole discretion of the 
Secretary concerned, shall determine the priority and timing for 
completing each required environmental analysis with respect to a 
grazing allotment, permit, or lease based on--
        ``(1) the environmental significance of the grazing allotment, 
    permit, or lease; and
        ``(2) the available funding for the environmental analysis.''.
SEC. 3024. CABIN USER AND TRANSFER FEES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this 
section as the ``Secretary'') shall establish a fee in accordance with 
this section for the issuance of a special use permit for the use and 
occupancy of National Forest System land for recreational residence 
purposes.
    (b) Interim Fee.--During the period beginning on January 1, 2014, 
and ending on the last day of the calendar year during which the 
current appraisal cycle is completed under subsection (c), the 
Secretary shall assess an interim annual fee for recreational 
residences on National Forest System land that is an amount equal to 
the lesser of--
        (1) the fee determined under the Cabin User Fee Fairness Act of 
    2000 (16 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.), subject to the requirement that any 
    increase over the fee assessed during the previous year shall be 
    limited to not more than 25 percent; or
        (2) $5,600.
    (c) Completion of Current Appraisal Cycle.--Not later than 1 year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
complete the current appraisal cycle, including receipt of timely 
second appraisals, for recreational residences on National Forest 
System land in accordance with the Cabin User Fee Fairness Act of 2000 
(16 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.) (referred to in this section as the ``current 
appraisal cycle'').
    (d) Lot Value.--Only appraisals conducted and approved by the 
Secretary in accordance with the Cabin User Fee Fairness Act of 2000 
(16 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.) during the current appraisal cycle shall be 
used to establish the base value assigned to the lot, subject to the 
adjustment in subsection (e). If a second appraisal--
        (1) was approved by the Secretary, the value established by the 
    second appraisal shall be the base value assigned to the lot; or
        (2) was not approved by the Secretary, the value established by 
    the initial appraisal shall be the base value assigned to the lot.
    (e) Adjustment.--On the date of completion of the current appraisal 
cycle, and before assessing a fee under subsection (f), the Secretary 
shall make a 1-time adjustment to the value of each appraised lot on 
which a recreational residence is located to reflect any change in 
value occurring after the date of the most recent appraisal for the 
lot, in accordance with the 4th quarter of 2012 National Association of 
Homebuilders/Wells Fargo Housing Opportunity Index.
    (f) Annual Fee.--
        (1) Base.--After the date on which appraised lot values have 
    been adjusted in accordance with subsection (e), the annual fee 
    assessed prospectively by the Secretary for recreational residences 
    on National Forest System land shall be in accordance with the 
    following tiered fee structure:


------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     Approximate  Percent of      Fee
             Fee Tier                  Permits  Nationally       Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tier 1............................  6 percent................       $650
Tier 2............................  16 percent...............     $1,150
Tier 3............................   26 percent..............     $1,650
Tier 4............................   22 percent..............     $2,150
Tier 5............................   10 percent..............     $2,650
Tier 6............................  5 percent................     $3,150
Tier 7............................   5 percent...............     $3,650
Tier 8............................   3 percent...............     $4,150
Tier 9............................   3 percent...............     $4,650
Tier 10...........................   3 percent...............     $5,150
Tier 11...........................  1 percent................    $5,650.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


        (2) Inflation adjustment.--The Secretary shall increase or 
    decrease the annual fees set forth in the table under paragraph (1) 
    to reflect changes in the Implicit Price Deflator for the Gross 
    Domestic Product published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of 
    the Department of Commerce, applied on a 5-year rolling average.
        (3) Access and occupancy adjustment.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall by regulation 
        establish criteria pursuant to which the annual fee determined 
        in accordance with this section may be suspended or reduced 
        temporarily if access to, or the occupancy of, the recreational 
        residence is significantly restricted.
            (B) Appeal.--The Secretary shall by regulation grant the 
        cabin owner the right of an administrative appeal of the 
        determination made in accordance with subparagraph (A) whether 
        to suspend or reduce temporarily the annual fee.
    (g) Periodic Review.--
        (1) In general.--Beginning on the date that is 10 years after 
    the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit 
    to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and 
    the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
    a report that--
            (A) analyzes the annual fees set forth in the table under 
        subsection (f) to ensure that the fees reflect fair value for 
        the use of the land for recreational residence purposes, taking 
        into account all use limitations and restrictions (including 
        any limitations and restrictions imposed by the Secretary); and
            (B) includes any recommendations of the Secretary with 
        respect to modifying the fee system.
        (2) Limitation.--The use of appraisals shall not be required 
    for any modifications to the fee system based on the 
    recommendations under paragraph (1)(B).
    (h) Cabin Transfer Fees.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a fee in the 
    amount of $1,200 for the issuance of a new recreational residence 
    permit due to a change of ownership of the recreational residence.
        (2) Adjustments.--The Secretary shall annually increase or 
    decrease the transfer fee established under paragraph (1) to 
    reflect changes in the Implicit Price Deflator for the Gross 
    Domestic Product published by the Bureau of Economic Analysis of 
    the Department of Commerce, applied on a 5-year rolling average.
    (i) Effect.--
        (1) In general.--Nothing in this section limits or restricts 
    any right, title, or interest of the United States in or to any 
    land or resource in the National Forest System.
        (2) Alaska.--The Secretary shall not establish or impose a fee 
    or condition under this section for permits in the State of Alaska 
    that is inconsistent with section 1303(d) of the Alaska National 
    Interest Lands Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 3193(d)).
    (j) Retention of Fees.--
        (1) In general.--Beginning 10 years after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary may retain, and expend, for 
    the purposes described in paragraph (2), any fees collected under 
    this section without further appropriation.
        (2) Use.--Amounts made available under paragraph (1) shall be 
    used to administer the recreational residence program and other 
    recreation programs carried out on National Forest System land.
    (k) Repeal of Cabin User Fee Fairness Act of 2000.--Effective on 
the date of the assessment of annual permit fees in accordance with 
subsection (f) (as certified to Congress by the Secretary), the Cabin 
User Fee Fairness Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 6201 et seq.) is repealed.

                 Subtitle C--National Park System Units

SEC. 3030. ADDITION OF ASHLAND HARBOR BREAKWATER LIGHT TO THE APOSTLE 
ISLANDS NATIONAL SEASHORE.
    Public Law 91-424 (16 U.S.C. 460w et seq.) is amended as follows:
        (1) In the first section as follows:
            (A) In the matter preceding subsection (a)--
                (i) by striking ``islands and shoreline'' and inserting 
            ``islands, shoreline, and light stations''; and
                (ii) by inserting ``historic,'' after ``scenic,''.
            (B) In subsection (a)--
                (i) by striking ``the area'' and inserting ``The 
            area''; and
                (ii) by striking ``; and'' and inserting a period.
            (C) In subsection (b), by striking the final period.
            (D) By inserting after ``1985.'' the following:
    ``(c) Ashland Harbor Breakwater Light.--
        ``(1) The Ashland Harbor Breakwater Light generally depicted on 
    the map titled `Ashland Harbor Breakwater Light Addition to Apostle 
    Islands National Lakeshore' and dated February 11, 2014, located at 
    the end of the breakwater on Chequamegon Bay, Wisconsin.
        ``(2) Congress does not intend for the designation of the 
    property under paragraph (1) to create a protective perimeter or 
    buffer zone around the boundary of that property.''.
        (2) In section 6 as follows:
            (A) By striking ``The lakeshore'' and inserting:
    ``(a) In General.--The lakeshore''.
            (B) By inserting ``this section and'' before ``the 
        provisions of''.
            (C) By adding after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Federal Use.--Notwithstanding subsection (c) of the first 
section--
        ``(1) the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard 
    is operating may operate, maintain, keep, locate, inspect, repair, 
    and replace any Federal aid to navigation located at the Ashland 
    Harbor Breakwater Light for as long as such aid is needed for 
    navigational purposes; and
        ``(2) in carrying out the activities described in paragraph 
    (1), such Secretary may enter, at any time, the Ashland Harbor 
    Breakwater Light or any Federal aid to navigation at the Ashland 
    Harbor Breakwater Light, for as long as such aid is needed for 
    navigational purposes, without notice to the extent that it is not 
    possible to provide advance notice.
    ``(c) Clarification of Authority.--Pursuant to existing 
authorities, the Secretary may enter into agreements with the City of 
Ashland, County of Ashland, and County of Bayfield, Wisconsin, for the 
purpose of cooperative law enforcement and emergency services within 
the boundaries of the lakeshore.''.
SEC. 3031. BLACKSTONE RIVER VALLEY NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to establish the 
Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park--
        (1) to help preserve, protect, and interpret the nationally 
    significant resources that exemplify the industrial heritage of the 
    Blackstone River Valley for the benefit and inspiration of future 
    generations;
        (2) to support the preservation, protection, and interpretation 
    of the urban, rural, and agricultural landscape features (including 
    the Blackstone River and Canal) of the region that provide an 
    overarching context for the industrial heritage of the Blackstone 
    River Valley;
        (3) to educate the public about--
            (A) the nationally significant sites and districts that 
        convey the industrial history of the Blackstone River Valley; 
        and
            (B) the significance of the Blackstone River Valley to the 
        past and present of the United States; and
        (4) to support and enhance the network of partners in the 
    protection, improvement, management, and operation of related 
    resources and facilities throughout the John H. Chafee Blackstone 
    River Valley National Heritage Corridor.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) National heritage corridor.--The term ``National Heritage 
    Corridor'' means the John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley 
    National Heritage Corridor.
        (2) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the Blackstone River Valley 
    National Historical Park established by subsection (c)(1).
        (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (4) States.--The term ``States'' means--
            (A) the State of Massachusetts; and
            (B) the State of Rhode Island.
    (c) Blackstone River Valley National Historical Park.--
        (1) Establishment.--There is established in the States a unit 
    of the National Park System, to be known as the ``Blackstone River 
    Valley National Historical Park''.
        (2) Historic sites and districts.--The Park shall include--
            (A) Blackstone River State Park; and
            (B) the following resources, as described in Management 
        Option 3 of the study entitled ``Blackstone River Valley 
        Special Resource Study--Study Report 2011'':
                (i) Old Slater Mill National Historic Landmark 
            District.
                (ii) Slatersville Historic District.
                (iii) Ashton Historic District.
                (iv) Whitinsville Historic District.
                (v) Hopedale Village Historic District.
                (vi) Blackstone River and the tributaries of Blackstone 
            River.
                (vii) Blackstone Canal.
        (3) Acquisition of land; park boundary.--
            (A) Land acquisition.--
                (i) In general.--The Secretary may acquire land or 
            interests in land that are considered contributing historic 
            resources in the historic sites and districts described in 
            paragraph (2)(B) for inclusion in the Park boundary by 
            donation, purchase from a willing seller with donated or 
            appropriated funds, or exchange.
                (ii) No condemnation.--No land or interest in land may 
            be acquired for the Park by condemnation.
            (B) Park boundary.--On a determination by the Secretary 
        that a sufficient quantity of land or interests in land has 
        been acquired to constitute a manageable park unit, the 
        Secretary shall establish a boundary for the Park by publishing 
        a boundary map in the Federal Register.
            (C) Other resources.--The Secretary may include in the Park 
        boundary any resources that are the subject of an agreement 
        with the States or a subdivision of the States entered into 
        under paragraph (4)(D).
            (D) Boundary adjustment.--On the acquisition of additional 
        land or interests in land under subparagraph (A), or on 
        entering an agreement under subparagraph (C), the boundary of 
        the Park shall be adjusted to reflect the acquisition or 
        agreement by publishing a Park boundary map in the Federal 
        Register.
            (E) Availability of map.--The maps referred to in this 
        paragraph shall be available for public inspection in the 
        appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
            (F) Administrative facilities.--The Secretary may acquire 
        not more than 10 acres in Woonsocket, Rhode Island for the 
        development of administrative, curatorial, maintenance, or 
        visitor facilities for the Park.
            (G) Limitation.--Land owned by the States or a political 
        subdivision of the States may be acquired under this paragraph 
        only by donation.
        (4) Administration.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall administer land within 
        the boundary of the Park in accordance with--
                (i) this subsection; and
                (ii) the laws generally applicable to units of the 
            National Park System, including--

                    (I) the National Park Service Organic Act (16 
                U.S.C. 1 et seq.); and
                    (II) the Act of August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et 
                seq.).

            (B) General management plan.--
                (i) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date 
            on which funds are made available to carry out this 
            subsection, the Secretary shall prepare a general 
            management plan for the Park--

                    (I) in consultation with the States and other 
                interested parties; and
                    (II) in accordance with section 12(b) of the 
                National Park System General Authorities Act (16 U.S.C. 
                1a-7(b)).

                (ii) Requirements.--The plan shall consider ways to use 
            preexisting or planned visitor facilities and recreational 
            opportunities developed in the National Heritage Corridor, 
            including--

                    (I) the Blackstone Valley Visitor Center, 
                Pawtucket, Rhode Island;
                    (II) the Captain Wilbur Kelly House, Blackstone 
                River State Park, Lincoln, Rhode Island;
                    (III) the Museum of Work and Culture, Woonsocket, 
                Rhode Island;
                    (IV) the River Bend Farm/Blackstone River and Canal 
                Heritage State Park, Uxbridge, Massachusetts;
                    (V) the Worcester Blackstone Visitor Center, 
                located at the former Washburn & Moen wire mill 
                facility, Worcester, Massachusetts;
                    (VI) the Route 295 Visitor Center adjacent to 
                Blackstone River State Park; and
                    (VII) the Blackstone River Bikeway.

            (C) Related sites.--The Secretary may provide technical 
        assistance, visitor services, interpretive tours, and 
        educational programs to sites and resources in the National 
        Heritage Corridor that are located outside the boundary of the 
        Park and associated with the purposes for which the Park is 
        established.
            (D) Cooperative agreements.--
                (i) In general.--To further the purposes of this 
            subsection and notwithstanding chapter 63 of title 31, 
            United States Code, the Secretary may enter into 
            cooperative agreements with the States, political 
            subdivisions of the States, nonprofit organizations 
            (including the local coordinating entity for the National 
            Heritage Corridor), and other interested parties--

                    (I) to provide technical assistance, 
                interpretation, and educational programs in the 
                historic sites and districts described in paragraph 
                (2)(B); and
                    (II) subject to the availability of appropriations 
                and clauses (ii) and (iii), to provide not more than 50 
                percent of the cost of any natural, historic, or 
                cultural resource protection project in the Park that 
                is consistent with the general management plan prepared 
                under subparagraph (B).

                (ii) Matching requirement.--As a condition of the 
            receipt of funds under clause (i)(II), the Secretary shall 
            require that any Federal funds made available under a 
            cooperative agreement entered into under this paragraph are 
            to be matched on a 1-to-1 basis by non-Federal funds.
                (iii) Reimbursement.--Any payment made by the Secretary 
            under clause (i)(ii) shall be subject to an agreement that 
            the conversion, use, or disposal of the project for 
            purposes that are inconsistent with the purposes of this 
            subsection, as determined by the Secretary, shall result in 
            a right of the United States to reimbursement of the 
            greater of--

                    (I) the amount provided by the Secretary to the 
                project under clause (i)(II); or
                    (II) an amount equal to the increase in the value 
                of the project that is attributable to the funds, as 
                determined by the Secretary at the time of the 
                conversion, use, or disposal.

                (iv) Public access.--Any cooperative agreement entered 
            into under this subparagraph shall provide for reasonable 
            public access to the resources covered by the cooperative 
            agreement.
        (5) Dedication; memorial.--
            (A) In general.--Congress dedicates the Park to John H. 
        Chafee, the former United States Senator from Rhode Island, in 
        recognition of--
                (i) the role of John H. Chafee in the preservation of 
            the resources of the Blackstone River Valley and the 
            heritage corridor that bears the name of John H. Chafee; 
            and
                (ii) the decades of the service of John H. Chafee to 
            the people of Rhode Island and the United States.
            (B) Memorial.--The Secretary shall display a memorial at an 
        appropriate location in the Park that recognizes the role of 
        John H. Chafee in preserving the resources of the Blackstone 
        River Valley for the people of the United States.
SEC. 3032. COLTSVILLE NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) City.--The term ``city'' means the city of Hartford, 
    Connecticut.
        (2) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Coltsville 
    National Historical Park Advisory Commission established by 
    subsection (k)(1).
        (3) Historic district.--The term ``Historic District'' means 
    the Coltsville Historic District.
        (4) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Coltsville 
    National Historical Park--Proposed Boundary'', numbered T25/102087, 
    and dated May 11, 2010.
        (5) Park.--The term ``park'' means the Coltsville National 
    Historical Park in the State of Connecticut.
        (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (7) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Connecticut.
    (b) Establishment.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), there is established 
    in the State a unit of the National Park System to be known as the 
    ``Coltsville National Historical Park''.
        (2) Conditions for establishment.--The park shall not be 
    established until the date on which the Secretary determines that--
            (A) the Secretary has acquired by donation sufficient land 
        or an interest in land within the boundary of the park to 
        constitute a manageable unit;
            (B) the State, city, or private property owner, as 
        appropriate, has entered into a written agreement with the 
        Secretary to donate at least 10,000 square feet of space in the 
        East Armory which would include facilities for park 
        administration and visitor services; and
            (C) the Secretary has entered into a written agreement with 
        the State, city, or other public entity, as appropriate, 
        providing that land owned by the State, city, or other public 
        entity within the Coltsville Historic District shall be managed 
        consistent with this section.
        (3) Notice.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
    Secretary makes a determination under paragraph (2), the Secretary 
    shall publish in the Federal Register notice of the establishment 
    of the park.
    (c) Boundaries.--The park shall include and provide appropriate 
interpretation and viewing of the following sites, as generally 
depicted on the map:
        (1) The East Armory.
        (2) The Church of the Good Shepherd.
        (3) The Caldwell/Colt Memorial Parish House.
        (4) Colt Park.
        (5) The Potsdam Cottages.
        (6) Armsmear.
        (7) The James Colt House.
    (d) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.
    (e) Collections.--The Secretary may enter into a written agreement 
with the State of Connecticut State Library, Wadsworth Atheneum, and 
the Colt Trust, or other public entities, as appropriate, to gain 
appropriate access to Colt-related artifacts for the purposes of having 
items routinely on display in the East Armory or within other areas of 
the park to enhance the visitor experience.
    (f) Administration.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the park in 
    accordance with--
            (A) this section; and
            (B) the laws generally applicable to units of the National 
        Park System, including--
                (i) the National Park Service Organic Act (16 U.S.C. 1 
            et seq.); and
                (ii) the Act of August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et 
            seq.).
        (2) State and local jurisdiction.--Nothing in this section 
    enlarges, diminishes, or modifies any authority of the State, or 
    any political subdivision of the State (including the city)--
            (A) to exercise civil and criminal jurisdiction; or
            (B) to carry out State laws (including regulations) and 
        rules on non-Federal land located within the boundary of the 
        park.
    (g) Cooperative Agreements.--
        (1) In general.--As the Secretary determines to be appropriate 
    to carry out this section, the Secretary may enter into cooperative 
    agreements to carry out this section, under which the Secretary may 
    identify, interpret, restore, rehabilitate, and provide technical 
    assistance for the preservation of nationally significant 
    properties within the boundary of the park.
        (2) Right of access.--A cooperative agreement entered into 
    under paragraph (1) shall provide that the Secretary, acting 
    through the Director of the National Park Service, shall have the 
    right of access at all reasonable times to all public portions of 
    the property covered by the agreement for the purposes of--
            (A) conducting visitors through the properties; and
            (B) interpreting the properties for the public.
        (3) Changes or alterations.--No changes or alterations shall be 
    made to any properties covered by a cooperative agreement entered 
    into under paragraph (1) unless the Secretary and the other party 
    to the agreement agree to the changes or alterations.
        (4) Conversion, use, or disposal.--Any payment by the Secretary 
    under this subsection shall be subject to an agreement that the 
    conversion, use, or disposal of a project for purposes contrary to 
    the purposes of this section, as determined by the Secretary, shall 
    entitle the United States to reimbursement in an amount equal to 
    the greater of--
            (A) the amounts made available to the project by the United 
        States; or
            (B) the portion of the increased value of the project 
        attributable to the amounts made available under this 
        subsection, as determined at the time of the conversion, use, 
        or disposal.
        (5) Matching funds.--
            (A) In general.--As a condition of the receipt of funds 
        under this subsection, the Secretary shall require that any 
        Federal funds made available under a cooperative agreement 
        shall be matched on a 1-to-1 basis by non-Federal funds.
            (B) Form.--With the approval of the Secretary, the non-
        Federal share required under subparagraph (A) may be in the 
        form of donated property, goods, or services from a non-Federal 
        source, fairly valued.
    (h) Acquisition of Land.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary is authorized to acquire land 
    and interests in land by donation, purchase with donated or 
    appropriated funds, or exchange, except that land or interests in 
    land owned by the State or any political subdivision of the State 
    may be acquired only by donation.
        (2) No condemnation.--The Secretary may not acquire any land or 
    interest in land for the purposes of this section by condemnation.
    (i) Technical Assistance and Public Interpretation.--The Secretary 
may provide technical assistance and public interpretation of related 
historic and cultural resources within the boundary of the historic 
district.
    (j) Management Plan.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 3 fiscal years after the date 
    on which funds are made available to carry out this section, the 
    Secretary, in consultation with the Commission, shall complete a 
    management plan for the park in accordance with--
            (A) section 12(b) of Public Law 91-383 (commonly known as 
        the ``National Park Service General Authorities Act'') (16 
        U.S.C. 1a-7(b)); and
            (B) other applicable laws.
        (2) Cost share.--The management plan shall include provisions 
    that identify costs to be shared by the Federal Government, the 
    State, and the city, and other public or private entities or 
    individuals for necessary capital improvements to, and maintenance 
    and operations of, the park.
        (3) Submission to congress.--On completion of the management 
    plan, the Secretary shall submit the management plan to--
            (A) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        Senate.
    (k) Coltsville National Historical Park Advisory Commission.--
        (1) Establishment.--There is established a Commission to be 
    known as the ``Coltsville National Historical Park Advisory 
    Commission''.
        (2) Duty.--The Commission shall advise the Secretary in the 
    development and implementation of the management plan.
        (3) Membership.--
            (A) Composition.--The Commission shall be composed of 11 
        members, to be appointed by the Secretary, of whom--
                (i) 2 members shall be appointed after consideration of 
            recommendations submitted by the Governor of the State;
                (ii) 1 member shall be appointed after consideration of 
            recommendations submitted by the State Senate President;
                (iii) 1 member shall be appointed after consideration 
            of recommendations submitted by the Speaker of the State 
            House of Representatives;
                (iv) 2 members shall be appointed after consideration 
            of recommendations submitted by the Mayor of Hartford, 
            Connecticut;
                (v) 2 members shall be appointed after consideration of 
            recommendations submitted by Connecticut's 2 United States 
            Senators;
                (vi) 1 member shall be appointed after consideration of 
            recommendations submitted by Connecticut's First 
            Congressional District Representative;
                (vii) 2 members shall have experience with national 
            parks and historic preservation;
                (viii) all appointments must have significant 
            experience with and knowledge of the Coltsville Historic 
            District; and
                (ix) 1 member of the Commission must live in the 
            Sheldon/Charter Oak neighborhood within the Coltsville 
            Historic District.
            (B) Initial appointments.--The Secretary shall appoint the 
        initial members of the Commission not later than the earlier 
        of--
                (i) the date that is 30 days after the date on which 
            the Secretary has received all of the recommendations for 
            appointments under subparagraph (A); or
                (ii) the date that is 30 days after the park is 
            established.
        (4) Term; vacancies.--
            (A) Term.--
                (i) In general.--A member shall be appointed for a term 
            of 3 years.
                (ii) Reappointment.--A member may be reappointed for 
            not more than 1 additional term.
            (B) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Commission shall be filled 
        in the same manner as the original appointment was made.
        (5) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of--
            (A) the Chairperson; or
            (B) a majority of the members of the Commission.
        (6) Quorum.--A majority of the Commission shall constitute a 
    quorum.
        (7) Chairperson and vice chairperson.--
            (A) In general.--The Commission shall select a Chairperson 
        and Vice Chairperson from among the members of the Commission.
            (B) Vice chairperson.--The Vice Chairperson shall serve as 
        Chairperson in the absence of the Chairperson.
            (C) Term.--A member may serve as Chairperson or Vice 
        Chairperson for not more than 1 year in each office.
        (8) Commission personnel matters.--
            (A) Compensation of members.--
                (i) In general.--Members of the Commission shall serve 
            without compensation.
                (ii) Travel expenses.--Members of the Commission shall 
            be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
            subsistence, at rates authorized for an employee of an 
            agency under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United 
            States Code, while away from the home or regular place of 
            business of the member in the performance of the duty of 
            the Commission.
            (B) Staff.--
                (i) In general.--The Secretary shall provide the 
            Commission with any staff members and technical assistance 
            that the Secretary, after consultation with the Commission, 
            determines to be appropriate to enable the Commission to 
            carry out the duty of the Commission.
                (ii) Detail of employees.--The Secretary may accept the 
            services of personnel detailed from the State or any 
            political subdivision of the State.
        (9) FACA nonapplicability.--Section 14(b) of the Federal 
    Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the 
    Commission.
        (10) Termination.--
            (A) In general.--Unless extended under subparagraph (B), 
        the Commission shall terminate on the date that is 10 years 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (B) Extension.--
                (i) Recommendation.--Eight years after the date of the 
            enactment of this Act, the Commission shall make a 
            recommendation to the Secretary if a body of its nature is 
            still necessary to advise on the development of the park.
                (ii) Term of extension.--If, based on a recommendation 
            under clause (i), the Secretary determines that the 
            Commission is still necessary, the Secretary may extend the 
            life of the Commission for not more than 10 years.
SEC. 3033. FIRST STATE NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Historical park.--The term ``historical park'' means the 
    First State National Historical Park.
        (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map with pages numbered 1-
    6 entitled ``First State National Historical Park, New Castle, 
    Kent, Sussex Counties, DE and Delaware County, PA, Proposed 
    Boundary'', numbered T19/80,000G, and dated October 2014.
        (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
    (b) Establishment.--
        (1) Redesignation of first state national monument.--
            (A) In general.--The First State National Monument is 
        redesignated as the First State National Historical Park, as 
        generally depicted on the map.
            (B) Availability of funds.--Any funds available for 
        purposes of the First State National Monument shall be 
        available for purposes of the historical park.
            (C) References.--Any references in a law, regulation, 
        document, record, map, or other paper of the United States to 
        the First State National Monument shall be considered to be a 
        reference to the historical park.
        (2) Purposes.--The purposes of the historical park are to 
    preserve, protect, and interpret the nationally significant 
    cultural and historic resources that are associated with--
            (A) early Dutch, Swedish, and English settlement of the 
        Colony of Delaware and portions of the Colony of Pennsylvania; 
        and
            (B) the role of Delaware--
                (i) in the birth of the United States; and
                (ii) as the first State to ratify the Constitution.
        (3) Inclusion of additional historic sites.--In addition to 
    sites included in the historical park (as redesignated by paragraph 
    (1)(A)) as of the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary 
    may include the following sites within the boundary of the 
    historical park, as generally depicted on the map:
            (A) Fort Christina National Historic Landmark in New Castle 
        County, Delaware, as depicted on page 3 of 6 of the map.
            (B) Old Swedes Church National Historic Landmark in New 
        Castle County, Delaware, as depicted on page 3 of 6 of the map.
            (C) John Dickinson Plantation National Historic Landmark in 
        Kent County, Delaware, as depicted on page 5 of 6 of the map.
            (D) Ryves Holt House in Sussex County, Delaware, as 
        depicted on page 6 of 6 of the map.
    (c) Administration.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the historical 
    park in accordance with--
            (A) this section; and
            (B) the laws generally applicable to units of the National 
        Park System, including--
                (i) the National Park System Organic Act (16 U.S.C. 1 
            et seq.); and
                (ii) the Act of August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et 
            seq.).
        (2) Land acquisition.--
            (A) Methods.--
                (i) In general.--Except as provided in clause (ii), the 
            Secretary may acquire all or a portion of any of the sites 
            described in subsection (b)(3), including easements or 
            other interests in land, by purchase from a willing seller, 
            donation, or exchange.
                (ii) Donation only.--The Secretary may acquire only by 
            donation all or a portion of the property identified as 
            ``Area for Potential Addition by Donation'' on page 2 of 6 
            of the map.
                (iii) Limitation.--No land or interest land may be 
            acquired for inclusion in the historical park by 
            condemnation.
            (B) Boundary adjustment.--On acquisition of land or an 
        interest in land under subparagraph (A), the boundary of the 
        historical park shall be adjusted to reflect the acquisition.
        (3) Interpretive tours.--The Secretary may provide interpretive 
    tours to sites and resources in the State that are located outside 
    the boundary of the historical park and associated with the 
    purposes for which the historical park is established, including--
            (A) Fort Casimir;
            (B) DeVries Monument;
            (C) Amstel House;
            (D) Dutch House; and
            (E) Zwaanendael Museum.
        (4) Cooperative agreements.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary may enter into a cooperative 
        agreement with the State of Delaware, political subdivisions of 
        the State of Delaware, institutions of higher education, 
        nonprofit organizations, and individuals to mark, interpret, 
        and restore nationally significant historic or cultural 
        resources within the boundaries of the historical park, if the 
        cooperative agreement provides for reasonable public access to 
        the resources.
            (B) Cost-sharing requirement.--
                (i) Federal share.--The Federal share of the total cost 
            of any activity carried out under a cooperative agreement 
            entered into under subparagraph (A) shall be not more than 
            50 percent.
                (ii) Form of non-federal share.--The non-Federal share 
            may be in the form of in-kind contributions or goods or 
            services fairly valued.
        (5) Management plan.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 3 fiscal years after the 
        date on which funds are made available to carry out this 
        paragraph, the Secretary shall complete a management plan for 
        the historical park.
            (B) Applicable law.--The management plan shall be prepared 
        in accordance with section 12(b) of the National Park System 
        General Authorities Act (16 U.S.C. 1a-7(b)) and other 
        applicable laws.
    (d) National Landmark Study.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which 
    funds are made available to carry out this section, the Secretary 
    shall complete a study assessing the historical significance of 
    additional properties in the State of Delaware that are associated 
    with the purposes of historical park.
        (2) Requirements.--The study prepared under paragraph (1) shall 
    include an assessment of the potential for designating the 
    additional properties as National Historic Landmarks.
    (e) Offset.--Section 7302(f) of the Omnibus Public Land Management 
Act of 2009 (16 U.S.C. 469n(f)) is amended by inserting before the 
period at the end the following: ``, except that the amount authorized 
to be appropriated to carry out this section not appropriated as of the 
date of enactment of the First State National Historical Park Act shall 
be reduced by $6,500,000''.
SEC. 3034. GETTYSBURG NATIONAL MILITARY PARK.
    (a) Boundary Revision.--Section 1(b) of Public Law 101-377 (16 
U.S.C. 430g-4(b)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``include the'' and insert ``include--
        ``(1) the'';
        (2) at the end of paragraph (1) (as designated by paragraph 
    (1)), by striking the period and inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(2) the properties depicted as `Proposed Addition' on the map 
    entitled `Gettysburg National Military Park Proposed Boundary 
    Addition', numbered 305/80,045, and dated January, 2010 (2 sheets), 
    including--
            ``(A) the property commonly known as the `Gettysburg Train 
        Station'; and
            ``(B) the property located adjacent to Plum Run in 
        Cumberland Township.''.
    (b) Acquisition of Land.--Section 2(a) of Public Law 101-377 (16 
U.S.C. 430g-5(a)) is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``The Secretary'' and 
    inserting the following:
        ``(1) Authority to acquire land.--The Secretary'';
        (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``In acquiring'' and 
    inserting the following:
        ``(2) Minimum federal interests.--In acquiring''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(3) Method of acquisition for certain land.--Notwithstanding 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary may acquire the properties added to 
    the park by section 1(b)(2) only by donation.''.
SEC. 3035. HARRIET TUBMAN UNDERGROUND RAILROAD NATIONAL HISTORICAL 
PARK, MARYLAND.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Historical park.--The term ``historical park'' means the 
    Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad National Historical Park 
    established by subsection (b)(1)(A).
        (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Harriet 
    Tubman Underground Railroad National Historical Park, Proposed 
    Boundary and Authorized Acquisition Areas'', numbered T20/80,001A, 
    and dated March 2014.
        (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Maryland.
    (b) Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad National Historical Park.--
        (1) Establishment.--
            (A) In general.--There is established as a unit of the 
        National Park System the Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad 
        National Historical Park in the State, consisting of the area 
        depicted on the map as ``Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad 
        National Historical Park Boundary''.
            (B) Boundary.--The boundary of the historical park shall 
        consist of--
                (i) the land described in subparagraph (A); and
                (ii) any land and interests in land acquired under 
            paragraph (3).
            (C) Availability of map.--The map shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in appropriate offices of the 
        National Park Service.
        (2) Purpose.--The purpose of the historical park is to preserve 
    and interpret for the benefit of present and future generations the 
    historical, cultural, and natural resources associated with the 
    life of Harriet Tubman and the Underground Railroad.
        (3) Land acquisition.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary may acquire land and 
        interests in land within the areas depicted on the map as 
        ``Authorized Acquisition Areas for the National Historical 
        Park'' only by purchase from willing sellers, donation, or 
        exchange.
            (B) Limitation.--The Secretary may not acquire land or an 
        interest in land for purposes of this section by condemnation.
            (C) Boundary adjustment.--On acquisition of land or an 
        interest in land under subparagraph (A), the boundary of the 
        historical park shall be adjusted to reflect the acquisition.
    (c) Administration.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the historical 
    park and the portion of the Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad 
    National Monument administered by the National Park Service as a 
    single unit of the National Park System, which shall be known as 
    the ``Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad National Historical 
    Park''.
        (2) Applicable law.--The Secretary shall administer the 
    historical park in accordance with this section, Presidential 
    Proclamation Number 8943 (78 Fed. Reg. 18763), and the laws 
    generally applicable to units of the National Park System, 
    including--
            (A) the National Park System Organic Act (16 U.S.C. 1 et 
        seq.); and
            (B) the Act of August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).
        (3) Interagency agreement.--Not later than 1 year after the 
    date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the National Park 
    Service and the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife 
    Service shall enter into an agreement to allow the National Park 
    Service to provide for archeological research and the public 
    interpretation of historic resources located within the boundary of 
    the Blackwater National Wildlife Refuge that are associated with 
    the life of Harriet Tubman, consistent with the management 
    requirements of the Refuge.
        (4) Interpretive tours.--The Secretary may provide interpretive 
    tours to sites and resources located outside the boundary of the 
    historical park in Caroline, Dorchester, and Talbot Counties, 
    Maryland, relating to the life of Harriet Tubman and the 
    Underground Railroad.
        (5) Land uses and agreements.--Nothing in this section 
    affects--
            (A) land within the boundaries of the Blackwater National 
        Wildlife Refuge;
            (B) agreements between the Secretary and private landowners 
        regarding hunting, fishing, farming, or other activities; or
            (C) land use rights of private property owners within or 
        adjacent to the historical park or the Harriet Tubman 
        Underground Railroad National Monument, including activities or 
        uses on private land that can be seen or heard within the 
        historical park or the Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad 
        National Monument.
        (6) Agreements.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary may enter into an agreement 
        with the State, political subdivisions of the State, colleges 
        and universities, non-profit organizations, and individuals--
                (i) to mark, interpret, and restore nationally 
            significant historic or cultural resources relating to the 
            life of Harriet Tubman or the Underground Railroad within 
            the boundaries of the historical park, if the agreement 
            provides for reasonable public access; or
                (ii) to conduct research relating to the life of 
            Harriet Tubman and the Underground Railroad.
            (B) Visitor center.--The Secretary may enter into an 
        agreement to design, construct, operate, and maintain a joint 
        visitor center on land owned by the State--
                (i) to provide for National Park Service visitor and 
            interpretive facilities for the historical park; and
                (ii) to provide to the Secretary, at no additional 
            cost, sufficient office space to administer the historical 
            park.
            (C) Cost-sharing requirement.--
                (i) Federal share.--The Federal share of the total cost 
            of any activity carried out under this paragraph shall not 
            exceed 50 percent.
                (ii) Form of non-federal share.--The non-Federal share 
            of the cost of carrying out an activity under this 
            paragraph may be in the form of in-kind contributions or 
            goods or services fairly valued.
    (d) General Management Plan.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which 
    funds are made available to carry out this section, the Secretary 
    shall prepare a general management plan for the historical park in 
    accordance with section 12(b) of the National Park Service General 
    Authorities Act (16 U.S.C. 1a-7(b)).
        (2) Consultation.--The general management plan shall be 
    prepared in consultation with the State (including political 
    subdivisions of the State).
        (3) Public comment.--The Secretary shall--
            (A) hold not less than 1 public meeting in the area of the 
        historical park on the proposed general management plan, 
        including opportunity for public comment; and
            (B) publish the draft general management plan on the 
        internet and provide an opportunity for public comment on the 
        plan.
        (4) Coordination.--The Secretary shall coordinate the 
    preparation and implementation of the management plan with--
            (A) the Blackwater National Wildlife Refuge;
            (B) the Harriet Tubman National Historical Park established 
        by section 3(b)(1)(A); and
            (C) the National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom.
SEC. 3036. HARRIET TUBMAN NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK, AUBURN, NEW YORK.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Historical park.--The term ``historical park'' means the 
    Harriet Tubman National Historical Park established by subsection 
    (b)(1)(A).
        (2) Home.--The term ``Home'' means The Harriet Tubman Home, 
    Inc., located in Auburn, New York.
        (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Harriet 
    Tubman National Historical Park'', numbered T18/80,000, and dated 
    March 2009.
        (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New York.
    (b) Harriet Tubman National Historical Park.--
        (1) Establishment.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), there is 
        established the Harriet Tubman National Historical Park in 
        Auburn, New York, as a unit of the National Park System.
            (B) Determination by secretary.--The historical park shall 
        not be established until the date on which the Secretary 
        determines that a sufficient quantity of land, or interests in 
        land, has been acquired to constitute a manageable park unit.
            (C) Notice.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which 
        the Secretary makes a determination under subparagraph (B), the 
        Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register notice of the 
        establishment of the historical park.
            (D) Map.--The map shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
        (2) Boundary.--The historical park shall include the Harriet 
    Tubman Home, the Tubman Home for the Aged, the Thompson Memorial 
    AME Zion Church and Rectory, and associated land, as identified in 
    the area entitled ``National Historical Park Proposed Boundary'' on 
    the map.
        (3) Purpose.--The purpose of the historical park is to preserve 
    and interpret for the benefit of present and future generations the 
    historical, cultural, and natural resources associated with the 
    life of Harriet Tubman.
        (4) Land acquisition.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary may acquire land and 
        interests in land within the areas depicted on the map by 
        purchase from a willing seller, donation, or exchange.
            (B) No condemnation.--No land or interest in land within 
        the areas depicted on the map may be acquired by condemnation.
    (c) Administration.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the historical 
    park in accordance with this section and the laws generally 
    applicable to units of the National Park System, including--
            (A) the National Park System Organic Act (16 U.S.C. 1 et 
        seq.); and
            (B) the Act of August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et seq.).
        (2) Interpretive tours.--The Secretary may provide interpretive 
    tours to sites and resources located outside the boundary of the 
    historical park in Auburn, New York, relating to the life of 
    Harriet Tubman.
        (3) Agreements.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary may enter into an agreement 
        with the owner of any land within the historical park to mark, 
        interpret, or restore nationally significant historic or 
        cultural resources relating to the life of Harriet Tubman, if 
        the agreement provides that--
                (i) the Secretary shall have the right of access to any 
            public portions of the land covered by the agreement to 
            allow for--

                    (I) access at reasonable times by historical park 
                visitors to the land; and
                    (II) interpretation of the land for the public; and

                (ii) no changes or alterations shall be made to the 
            land except by mutual agreement of the Secretary and the 
            owner of the land.
            (B) Research.--The Secretary may enter into an agreement 
        with the State, political subdivisions of the State, 
        institutions of higher education, the Home and other nonprofit 
        organizations, and individuals to conduct research relating to 
        the life of Harriet Tubman.
            (C) Cost-sharing requirement.--
                (i) Federal share.--The Federal share of the total cost 
            of any activity carried out under this paragraph shall not 
            exceed 50 percent.
                (ii) Form of non-federal share.--The non-Federal share 
            may be in the form of in-kind contributions or goods or 
            services fairly valued.
            (D) Attorney general.--
                (i) In general.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
            Attorney General for review any agreement under this 
            paragraph involving religious property or property owned by 
            a religious institution.
                (ii) Finding.--No agreement subject to review under 
            this subparagraph shall take effect until the date on which 
            the Attorney General issues a finding that the proposed 
            agreement does not violate the Establishment Clause of the 
            first amendment to the Constitution.
    (d) General Management Plan.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which 
    funds are made available to carry out this section, the Secretary 
    shall prepare a general management plan for the historical park in 
    accordance with section 12(b) of the National Park Service General 
    Authorities Act (16 U.S.C. 1a-7(b)).
        (2) Coordination.--The Secretary shall coordinate the 
    preparation and implementation of the management plan with--
            (A) the Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad National 
        Historical Park established by section 2(b)(1); and
            (B) the National Underground Railroad Network to Freedom.
    (e) Offset.--Section 101(b)(12) of the Water Resources Development 
Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-303; 110 Stat. 3667) is amended by striking 
``$53,852,000'' and inserting ``$29,852,000''.
SEC. 3037. HINCHLIFFE STADIUM ADDITION TO PATERSON GREAT FALLS NATIONAL 
HISTORICAL PARK.
    (a) Paterson Great Falls National Historical Park Boundary 
Adjustment.--Section 7001 of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 
2009 (16 U.S.C. 410lll) is amended as follows:
        (1) In subsection (b)(3)--
            (A) by striking ``The Park shall'' and inserting ``(A) The 
        Park shall'';
            (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (G) as 
        clauses (i) through (vii), respectively; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(B) In addition to the lands described in subparagraph (A), 
    the Park shall include the approximately 6 acres of land containing 
    Hinchliffe Stadium and generally depicted as the `Boundary 
    Modification Area' on the map entitled `Paterson Great Falls 
    National Historical Park, Proposed Boundary Modification', numbered 
    T03/120,155, and dated April 2014, which shall be administered as 
    part of the Park in accordance with subsection (c)(1) and section 3 
    of the Hinchliffe Stadium Heritage Act.''.
        (2) In subsection (b)(4), by striking ``The Map'' and inserting 
    ``The Map and the map referred to in paragraph (3)(B)''.
        (3) In subsection (c)(4)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``The Secretary'' and 
        inserting ``Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), 
        the Secretary''; and
            (B) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:
            ``(C) Hinchliffe stadium.--The Secretary may not acquire 
        fee title to Hinchliffe Stadium, but may acquire a preservation 
        easement in Hinchliffe Stadium if the Secretary determines that 
        doing so will facilitate resource protection of the stadium.''.
    (b) Additional Considerations for Hinchliffe Stadium.--
        (1) In general.--In administering the approximately 6 acres of 
    land containing Hinchliffe Stadium and generally depicted as the 
    ``Boundary Modification Area'' on the map entitled ``Paterson Great 
    Falls National Historical Park, Proposed Boundary Modification'', 
    numbered T03/120,155, and dated April 2014, the Secretary of the 
    Interior--
            (A) may not include non-Federal property within the 
        approximately 6 acres of land as part of Paterson Great Falls 
        National Historical Park without the written consent of the 
        owner;
            (B) may not acquire by condemnation any land or interests 
        in land within the approximately 6 acres of land; and
            (C) shall not construe the inclusion of Hinchliffe Stadium 
        made by this section to create buffer zones outside the 
        boundaries of the Paterson Great Falls National Historical 
        Park.
        (2) Outside activities.--The fact that activities can be seen 
    or head from within the approximately 6 acres of land described in 
    paragraph (1) shall not preclude such activities outside the 
    boundary of the Paterson Great Falls National Historical Park.
SEC. 3038. LOWER EAST SIDE TENEMENT NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE.
    Public Law 105-378 is amended--
        (1) in section 101(a)--
            (A) in paragraph (4), by striking ``the Lower East Side 
        Tenement at 97 Orchard Street in New York City is an 
        outstanding survivor'' and inserting ``the Lower East Side 
        Tenements at 97 and 103 Orchard Street in New York City are 
        outstanding survivors''; and
            (B) in paragraph (5), by striking ``the Lower East Side 
        Tenement is'' and inserting ``the Lower East Side Tenements 
        are'';
        (2) in section 102--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Lower East Side 
        Tenement found at 97 Orchard Street'' and inserting ``Lower 
        East Side Tenements found at 97 and 103 Orchard Street''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``which owns and operates 
        the tenement building at 97 Orchard Street'' and inserting 
        ``which owns and operates the tenement buildings at 97 and 103 
        Orchard Street'';
        (3) in section 103(a), by striking ``the Lower East Side 
    Tenement at 97 Orchard Street, in the City of New York, State of 
    New York, is designated'' and inserting ``the Lower East Side 
    Tenements at 97 and 103 Orchard Street, in the City of New York, 
    State of New York, are designated''; and
        (4) in section 104(d), by striking ``the property at 97 Orchard 
    Street'' and inserting ``the properties at 97 and 103 Orchard 
    Street''.
SEC. 3039. MANHATTAN PROJECT NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of this section are--
        (1) to preserve and protect for the benefit of present and 
    future generations the nationally significant historic resources 
    associated with the Manhattan Project;
        (2) to improve public understanding of the Manhattan Project 
    and the legacy of the Manhattan Project through interpretation of 
    the historic resources associated with the Manhattan Project;
        (3) to enhance public access to the Historical Park consistent 
    with protection of public safety, national security, and other 
    aspects of the mission of the Department of Energy; and
        (4) to assist the Department of Energy, Historical Park 
    communities, historical societies, and other interested 
    organizations and individuals in efforts to preserve and protect 
    the historically significant resources associated with the 
    Manhattan Project.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Historical park.--The term ``Historical Park'' means the 
    Manhattan Project National Historical Park established under 
    subsection (c).
        (2) Manhattan project.--The term ``Manhattan Project'' means 
    the Federal military program to develop an atomic bomb ending on 
    December 31, 1946.
        (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
    (c) Establishment of Manhattan Project National Historical Park.--
        (1) Establishment.--
            (A) Date.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this section, there shall be established as a unit 
        of the National Park System the Manhattan Project National 
        Historical Park.
            (B) Areas included.--The Historical Park shall consist of 
        facilities and areas listed under paragraph (2) as determined 
        by the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy. 
        The Secretary shall include the area referred to in paragraph 
        (2)(C)(i), the B Reactor National Historic Landmark, in the 
        Historical Park.
        (2) Eligible areas.--The Historical Park may only be comprised 
    of one or more of the following areas, or portions of the areas, as 
    generally depicted in the map titled ``Manhattan Project National 
    Historical Park Sites'', numbered 540/108,834-C, and dated 
    September 2012:
            (A) Oak ridge, tennessee.--Facilities, land, or interests 
        in land that are--
                (i) Buildings 9204-3 and 9731 at the Department of 
            Energy Y-12 National Security Complex;
                (ii) the X-10 Graphite Reactor at the Department of 
            Energy Oak Ridge National Laboratory;
                (iii) the K-25 Building site at the Department of 
            Energy East Tennessee Technology Park;
                (iv) the former Guest House located at 210 East Madison 
            Road; and
                (v) at other sites in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, that are 
            not depicted on the map but are determined by the Secretary 
            to be suitable and appropriate for inclusion in the 
            Historical Park, except that sites administered by the 
            Secretary of Energy may be included only with the 
            concurrence of the Secretary of Energy.
            (B) Los alamos, new mexico.--Facilities, land, or interests 
        in land that are--
                (i) within the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory 
            National Historic Landmark District, or any addition to the 
            Landmark District proposed in the National Historic 
            Landmark Nomination--Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory 
            (LASL) NHL District (Working Draft of NHL Revision), Los 
            Alamos National Laboratory document LA-UR 12-00387 (January 
            26, 2012);
                (ii) the former East Cafeteria located at 1670 Nectar 
            Street; and
                (iii) the former dormitory located at 1725 17th Street.
            (C) Hanford, washington.--Facilities, land, or interests in 
        land on the Department of Energy Hanford Nuclear Reservation 
        that are--
                (i) the B Reactor National Historic Landmark;
                (ii) the Hanford High School in the town of Hanford and 
            Hanford Construction Camp Historic District;
                (iii) the White Bluffs Bank building in the White 
            Bluffs Historic District;
                (iv) the warehouse at the Bruggemann's Agricultural 
            Complex;
                (v) the Hanford Irrigation District Pump House; and
                (vi) the T Plant (221-T Process Building).
    (d) Agreement.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
    enactment of this section, the Secretary and the Secretary of 
    Energy (acting through the Oak Ridge, Los Alamos, and Richland site 
    offices) shall enter into an agreement governing the respective 
    roles of the Secretary and the Secretary of Energy in administering 
    the facilities, land, or interests in land under the administrative 
    jurisdiction of the Department of Energy that is to be included in 
    the Historical Park under subsection (c)(2), including provisions 
    for enhanced public access, management, interpretation, and 
    historic preservation.
        (2) Responsibilities of the secretary.--Any agreement under 
    paragraph (1) shall provide that the Secretary shall--
            (A) have decisionmaking authority for the content of 
        historic interpretation of the Manhattan Project for purposes 
        of administering the Historical Park; and
            (B) ensure that the agreement provides an appropriate 
        advisory role for the National Park Service in preserving the 
        historic resources covered by the agreement.
        (3) Responsibilities of the secretary of energy.--Any agreement 
    under paragraph (1) shall provide that the Secretary of Energy--
            (A) shall ensure that the agreement appropriately protects 
        public safety, national security, and other aspects of the 
        ongoing mission of the Department of Energy at the Oak Ridge 
        Reservation, Los Alamos National Laboratory, and Hanford Site;
            (B) may consult with and provide historical information to 
        the Secretary concerning the Manhattan Project;
            (C) shall retain responsibility, in accordance with 
        applicable law, for any environmental remediation or activities 
        relating to structural safety that may be necessary in or 
        around the facilities, land, or interests in land governed by 
        the agreement; and
            (D) shall retain authority and legal obligations for 
        historic preservation and general maintenance, including to 
        ensure safe access, in connection with the Department's 
        Manhattan Project resources.
        (4) Amendments.--The agreement under paragraph (1) may be 
    amended, including to add to the Historical Park facilities, land, 
    or interests in land within the eligible areas described in 
    subsection (c)(2) that are under the jurisdiction of the Secretary 
    of Energy.
    (e) Public Participation.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall consult with interested 
    State, county, and local officials, organizations, and interested 
    members of the public--
            (A) before executing any agreement under subsection (d); 
        and
            (B) in the development of the general management plan under 
        subsection (f)(2).
        (2) Notice of determination.--Not later than 30 days after the 
    date on which an agreement under subsection (d) is entered into, 
    the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register notice of the 
    establishment of the Historical Park, including an official 
    boundary map.
        (3) Availability of map.--The official boundary map published 
    under paragraph (2) shall be on file and available for public 
    inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service. 
    The map shall be updated to reflect any additions to the Historical 
    Park from eligible areas described in subsection (c)(2).
        (4) Additions.--Any land, interest in land, or facility within 
    the eligible areas described in subsection (c)(2) that is acquired 
    by the Secretary or included in an amendment to the agreement under 
    subsection (d)(4) shall be added to the Historical Park.
    (f) Administration.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the Historical 
    Park in accordance with--
            (A) this section; and
            (B) the laws generally applicable to units of the National 
        Park System, including--
                (i) the National Park System Organic Act (16 U.S.C. 1 
            et seq.); and
                (ii) the Act of August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et 
            seq.).
        (2) General management plan.--Not later than 3 years after the 
    date on which funds are made available to carry out this 
    subsection, the Secretary, with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
    Energy, with respect to land administered by the Secretary of 
    Energy, and in consultation and collaboration with the Oak Ridge, 
    Los Alamos and Richland Department of Energy site offices, shall 
    complete a general management plan for the Historical Park in 
    accordance with section 12(b) of Public Law 91-383 (commonly known 
    as the National Park Service General Authorities Act; 16 U.S.C. 1a-
    7(b)).
        (3) Interpretive tours.--The Secretary may, subject to 
    applicable law, provide interpretive tours of historically 
    significant Manhattan Project sites and resources in the States of 
    Tennessee, New Mexico, and Washington that are located outside the 
    boundary of the Historical Park.
        (4) Land acquisition.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary may acquire land and 
        interests in land within the eligible areas described in 
        subsection (c)(2) by--
                (i) transfer of administrative jurisdiction from the 
            Department of Energy by agreement between the Secretary and 
            the Secretary of Energy;
                (ii) donation;
                (iii) exchange; or
                (iv) in the case of land and interests in land within 
            the eligible areas described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) 
            of subsection (c)(2), purchase from a willing seller.
            (B) No use of condemnation.--The Secretary may not acquire 
        by condemnation any land or interest in land under this 
        section.
            (C) Facilities.--The Secretary may acquire land or 
        interests in land in the vicinity of the Historical Park for 
        visitor and administrative facilities.
        (5) Donations; cooperative agreements.--
            (A) Federal facilities.--
                (i) In general.--The Secretary may enter into one or 
            more agreements with the head of a Federal agency to 
            provide public access to, and management, interpretation, 
            and historic preservation of, historically significant 
            Manhattan Project resources under the jurisdiction or 
            control of the Federal agency.
                (ii) Donations; cooperative agreements.--The Secretary 
            may accept donations from, and enter into cooperative 
            agreements with, State governments, units of local 
            government, tribal governments, organizations, or 
            individuals to further the purpose of an interagency 
            agreement entered into under clause (i) or to provide 
            visitor services and administrative facilities within 
            reasonable proximity to the Historical Park.
            (B) Technical assistance.--The Secretary may provide 
        technical assistance to State, local, or tribal governments, 
        organizations, or individuals for the management, 
        interpretation, and historic preservation of historically 
        significant Manhattan Project resources not included within the 
        Historical Park.
            (C) Donations to department of energy.--For the purposes of 
        this section, or for the purpose of preserving and providing 
        access to historically significant Manhattan Project resources, 
        the Secretary of Energy may accept, hold, administer, and use 
        gifts, bequests, and devises (including labor and services).
    (g) Adjacent Management.--
        (1) In general.--Nothing in this section creates a protective 
    perimeter or buffer zone around the boundary of the Historical 
    Park.
        (2) Activities outside the boundary of the historical park.--
    The fact that an activity or use on land outside the boundary of 
    the Historical Park can be seen or heard from within the boundary 
    shall not preclude the activity or use outside the boundary of the 
    Historical Park.
    (h) No Cause of Action.--Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to create a cause of action with respect to activities outside or 
adjacent to the established boundary of the Historical Park.
SEC. 3040. NORTH CASCADES NATIONAL PARK AND STEPHEN MATHER WILDERNESS.
    Title II of the Washington Park Wilderness Act of 1988 (16 U.S.C. 
1132 note; Public Law 100-668) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``SEC. 207. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS FOR ROAD.
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may adjust the boundaries of the 
North Cascades National Park and the Stephen Mather Wilderness in order 
to provide a 100-foot-wide corridor along which the Stehekin Valley 
Road may be rebuilt--
        ``(1) outside of the floodplain between milepost 12.9 and 
    milepost 22.8;
        ``(2) within the boundaries of the North Cascades National 
    Park; and
        ``(3) outside of the boundaries of the Stephen Mather 
    Wilderness.
    ``(b) No Net Loss of Lands.--The boundary adjustments made under 
this section shall be such that equal acreage amounts are exchanged 
between the Stephen Mather Wilderness and the North Cascades National 
Park, resulting in no net loss of acreage to either the Stephen Mather 
Wilderness or the North Cascades National Park.''.
SEC. 3041. OREGON CAVES NATIONAL MONUMENT AND PRESERVE.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Oregon 
    Caves National Monument and Preserve'', numbered 150/80,023, and 
    dated May 2010.
        (2) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the Oregon Caves 
    National Monument established by Presidential Proclamation Number 
    876 (36 Stat. 2497), dated July 12, 1909.
        (3) National monument and preserve.--The term ``National 
    Monument and Preserve'' means the Oregon Caves National Monument 
    and Preserve designated by subsection (b)(1)(A).
        (4) National preserve.--The term ``National Preserve'' means 
    the National Preserve designated by subsection (b)(1)(B).
        (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (6) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
    means--
            (A) the Secretary of Agriculture (acting through the Chief 
        of the Forest Service), with respect to National Forest System 
        land; and
            (B) the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to land 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management.
        (7) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Oregon.
    (b) Designations; Land Transfer; Boundary Adjustment.--
        (1) Designations.--
            (A) In general.--The Monument and the National Preserve 
        shall be administered as a single unit of the National Park 
        System and collectively known and designated as the ``Oregon 
        Caves National Monument and Preserve''.
            (B) National preserve.--The approximately 4,070 acres of 
        land identified on the map as ``Proposed Addition Lands'' shall 
        be designated as a National Preserve.
        (2) Transfer of administrative jurisdiction.--
            (A) In general.--Administrative jurisdiction over the land 
        designated as a National Preserve under paragraph (1)(B) is 
        transferred from the Secretary of Agriculture to the Secretary, 
        to be administered as part of the National Monument and 
        Preserve.
            (B) Exclusion of land.--The boundaries of the Rogue River-
        Siskiyou National Forest are adjusted to exclude the land 
        transferred under subparagraph (A).
        (3) Boundary adjustment.--The boundary of the National Monument 
    and Preserve is modified to exclude approximately 4 acres of land--
            (A) located in the City of Cave Junction; and
            (B) identified on the map as the ``Cave Junction Unit''.
        (4) Availability of map.--The map shall be on file and 
    available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
    National Park Service.
        (5) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
    document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
    Monument shall be considered to be a reference to the ``Oregon 
    Caves National Monument and Preserve''.
    (c) Administration.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the National 
    Monument and Preserve in accordance with--
            (A) this section;
            (B) Presidential Proclamation Number 876 (36 Stat. 2497), 
        dated July 12, 1909; and
            (C) any law (including regulations) generally applicable to 
        units of the National Park System, including the National Park 
        Service Organic Act (16 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).
        (2) Fire management.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, in accordance with paragraph (1), the 
    Secretary shall--
            (A) revise the fire management plan for the Monument to 
        include the land transferred under subsection (b)(2)(A); and
            (B) in accordance with the revised plan, carry out 
        hazardous fuel management activities within the boundaries of 
        the National Monument and Preserve.
        (3) Existing forest service contracts.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                (i) allow for the completion of any Forest Service 
            stewardship or service contract executed as of the date of 
            enactment of this Act with respect to the National 
            Preserve; and
                (ii) recognize the authority of the Secretary of 
            Agriculture for the purpose of administering a contract 
            described in clause (i) through the completion of the 
            contract.
            (B) Terms and conditions.--All terms and conditions of a 
        contract described in subparagraph (A)(i) shall remain in place 
        for the duration of the contract.
            (C) Liability.--The Forest Service shall be responsible for 
        any liabilities relating to a contract described in 
        subparagraph (A)(i).
        (4) Grazing.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary 
        may allow the grazing of livestock within the National Preserve 
        to continue as authorized under permits or leases in existence 
        as of the date of enactment of this Act.
            (B) Applicable law.--Grazing under subparagraph (A) shall 
        be--
                (i) at a level not greater than the level at which the 
            grazing exists as of the date of enactment of this Act, as 
            measured in Animal Unit Months; and
                (ii) in accordance with each applicable law (including 
            National Park Service regulations).
        (5) Fish and wildlife.--The Secretary shall permit hunting and 
    fishing on land and waters within the National Preserve in 
    accordance with applicable Federal and State laws, except that the 
    Secretary may, in consultation with the Oregon Department of Fish 
    and Wildlife, designate zones in which, and establish periods 
    during which, no hunting or fishing shall be permitted for reasons 
    of public safety, administration, or compliance by the Secretary 
    with any applicable law (including regulations).
    (d) Voluntary Grazing Lease or Permit Donation Program.--
        (1) Donation of lease or permit.--
            (A) Acceptance by secretary concerned.--The Secretary 
        concerned shall accept a grazing lease or permit that is 
        donated by a lessee or permittee for--
                (i) the Big Grayback Grazing Allotment located in the 
            Rogue River-Siskiyou National Forest; and
                (ii) the Billy Mountain Grazing Allotment located on a 
            parcel of land that is managed by the Secretary (acting 
            through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management).
            (B) Termination.--With respect to each grazing permit or 
        lease donated under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall--
                (i) terminate the grazing permit or lease; and
                (ii) ensure a permanent end to grazing on the land 
            covered by the grazing permit or lease.
        (2) Effect of donation.--A lessee or permittee that donates a 
    grazing lease or grazing permit (or a portion of a grazing lease or 
    grazing permit) under this section shall be considered to have 
    waived any claim to any range improvement on the associated grazing 
    allotment or portion of the associated grazing allotment, as 
    applicable.
    (e) Wild and Scenic River Designations.--
        (1) Designation.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
    Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by adding at the end the 
    following:
        ``(208) River styx, oregon.--The subterranean segment of Cave 
    Creek, known as the River Styx, to be administered by the Secretary 
    of the Interior as a scenic river.''.
        (2) Potential additions.--
            (A) In general.--Section 5(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1276(a)) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following:
        ``(141) Oregon caves national monument and preserve, oregon.--
            ``(A) Cave creek, oregon.--The 2.6-mile segment of Cave 
        Creek from the headwaters at the River Styx to the boundary of 
        the Rogue River Siskiyou National Forest.
            ``(B) Lake creek, oregon.--The 3.6-mile segment of Lake 
        Creek from the headwaters at Bigelow Lakes to the confluence 
        with Cave Creek.
            ``(C) No name creek, oregon.--The 0.6-mile segment of No 
        Name Creek from the headwaters to the confluence with Cave 
        Creek.
            ``(D) Panther creek.--The 0.8-mile segment of Panther Creek 
        from the headwaters to the confluence with Lake Creek.
            ``(E) Upper cave creek.--The segment of Upper Cave Creek 
        from the headwaters to the confluence with River Styx.''.
            (B) Study; report.--Section 5(b) of the Wild and Scenic 
        Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1276(b)) is amended by adding at the end 
        the following:
        ``(20) Oregon caves national monument and preserve, oregon.--
    Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds are made 
    available to carry out this paragraph, the Secretary shall--
            ``(A) complete the study of the Oregon Caves National 
        Monument and Preserve segments described in subsection 
        (a)(141); and
            ``(B) submit to Congress a report containing the results of 
        the study.''.
SEC. 3042. SAN ANTONIO MISSIONS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
    Section 201 of Public Law 95-629 (16 U.S.C. 410ee) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Sec. 201. (a) In order'' and inserting the 
    following:
    ``SEC. 201. SAN ANTONIO MISSIONS NATIONAL HISTORICAL PARK.
    ``(a) Establishment.--
        ``(1) In general.--In order''; and
        (2) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in the second sentence, by striking ``The park shall 
        also'' and inserting the following:
        ``(2) Additional land.--The park shall also'';
            (B) in the third sentence, by striking ``After advising 
        the'' and inserting the following:
        ``(4) Revisions.--After advising the''; and
            (C) by inserting after paragraph (2) (as designated by 
        subparagraph (A)) the following:
        ``(3) Boundary modification.--
            ``(A) In general.--The boundary of the park is modified to 
        include approximately 137 acres, as depicted on the map 
        entitled `San Antonio Missions National Historical Park 
        Proposed Boundary Addition', numbered 472/113,006A, and dated 
        June 2012.
            ``(B) Availability of map.--The map described in 
        subparagraph (A) shall be on file and available for inspection 
        in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
            ``(C) Acquisition of land.--The Secretary of the Interior 
        may acquire the land or any interest in the land described in 
        subparagraph (A) only by donation or exchange.''.
SEC. 3043. VALLES CALDERA NATIONAL PRESERVE, NEW MEXICO.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Eligible employee.--The term ``eligible employee'' means a 
    person who was a full-time or part-time employee of the Trust 
    during the 180-day period immediately preceding the date of 
    enactment of this Act.
        (2) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Valles Caldera Fund 
    established by section 106(h)(2) of the Valles Caldera Preservation 
    Act (16 U.S.C. 698v-4(h)(2)).
        (3) Preserve.--The term ``Preserve'' means the Valles Caldera 
    National Preserve in the State.
        (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New Mexico.
        (6) Trust.--The term ``Trust'' means the Valles Caldera Trust 
    established by section 106(a) of the Valles Caldera Preservation 
    Act (16 U.S.C. 698v-4(a)).
    (b) Designation of Valles Caldera National Preserve as a Unit of 
the National Park System.--
        (1) In general.--To protect, preserve, and restore the fish, 
    wildlife, watershed, natural, scientific, scenic, geologic, 
    historic, cultural, archaeological, and recreational values of the 
    area, the Valles Caldera National Preserve is designated as a unit 
    of the National Park System.
        (2) Boundary.--
            (A) In general.--The boundary of the Preserve shall consist 
        of approximately 89,900 acres of land as depicted on the map 
        entitled ``Valles Caldera National Preserve Proposed 
        Boundary'', numbered P80/102,036C, and dated November 4, 2014.
            (B) Availability of map.--The map described in subparagraph 
        (A) shall be on file and available for public inspection in 
        appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
        (3) Management.--
            (A) Applicable law.--The Secretary shall administer the 
        Preserve in accordance with--
                (i) this section; and
                (ii) the laws generally applicable to units of the 
            National Park System, including--

                    (I) the National Park Service Organic Act (16 
                U.S.C. 1 et seq.); and
                    (II) the Act of August 21, 1935 (16 U.S.C. 461 et 
                seq.).

            (B) Management coordination.--The Secretary may coordinate 
        the management and operations of the Preserve with the 
        Bandelier National Monument.
            (C) Management plan.--
                (i) In general.--Not later than 3 fiscal years after 
            the date on which funds are made available to implement 
            this subparagraph, the Secretary shall prepare a management 
            plan for the Preserve.
                (ii) Applicable law.--The management plan shall be 
            prepared in accordance with--

                    (I) section 12(b) of Public Law 91-383 (commonly 
                known as the ``National Park Service General 
                Authorities Act'') (16 U.S.C. 1a-7(b)); and
                    (II) any other applicable laws.

                (iii) Consultation.--The management plan shall be 
            prepared in consultation with--

                    (I) the Secretary of Agriculture;
                    (II) State and local governments;
                    (III) Indian tribes and pueblos, including the 
                Pueblos of Jemez, Santa Clara, and San Ildefonso; and
                    (IV) the public.

        (4) Acquisition of land.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary may acquire land and 
        interests in land within the boundaries of the Preserve by--
                (i) purchase from a willing seller with donated or 
            appropriated funds; or
                (ii) donation.
            (B) Prohibition of condemnation.--No land or interest in 
        land within the boundaries of the Preserve may be acquired by 
        condemnation.
            (C) Administration of acquired land.--On acquisition of any 
        land or interests in land under subparagraph (A), the acquired 
        land or interests in land shall be administered as part of the 
        Preserve.
        (5) Science and education program.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                (i) until the date on which a management plan is 
            completed in accordance with paragraph (3)(C), carry out 
            the science and education program for the Preserve 
            established by the Trust; and
                (ii) beginning on the date on which a management plan 
            is completed in accordance with paragraph (3)(C), establish 
            a science and education program for the Preserve that--

                    (I) allows for research and interpretation of the 
                natural, historic, cultural, geologic and other 
                scientific features of the Preserve;
                    (II) provides for improved methods of ecological 
                restoration and science-based adaptive management of 
                the Preserve; and
                    (III) promotes outdoor educational experiences in 
                the Preserve.

            (B) Science and education center.--As part of the program 
        established under subparagraph (A)(ii), the Secretary may 
        establish a science and education center outside the boundaries 
        of the Preserve in Jemez Springs, New Mexico.
        (6) Grazing.--The Secretary shall allow the grazing of 
    livestock within the Preserve to continue--
            (A) at levels and locations determined by the Secretary to 
        be appropriate, consistent with this section; and
            (B) to the extent the use furthers scientific research or 
        interpretation of the ranching history of the Preserve.
        (7) Hunting, fishing, and trapping.--
            (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        the Secretary shall permit hunting, fishing, and trapping on 
        land and water within the Preserve in accordance with 
        applicable Federal and State law.
            (B) Administrative exceptions.--The Secretary may designate 
        areas in which, and establish limited periods during which, no 
        hunting, fishing, or trapping shall be permitted under 
        subparagraph (A) for reasons of public safety, administration, 
        or compliance with applicable law.
            (C) Agency agreement.--Except in an emergency, regulations 
        closing areas within the Preserve to hunting, fishing, or 
        trapping under this paragraph shall be made in consultation 
        with the appropriate agency of the State having responsibility 
        for fish and wildlife administration.
            (D) Savings clause.--Nothing in this section affects any 
        jurisdiction or responsibility of the State with respect to 
        fish and wildlife in the Preserve.
        (8) Ecological restoration.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall undertake activities 
        to improve the health of forest, grassland, and riparian areas 
        within the Preserve, including any activities carried out in 
        accordance with title IV of the Omnibus Public Land Management 
        Act of 2009 (16 U.S.C. 7301 et seq.).
            (B) Agreements.--The Secretary may enter into agreements 
        with adjacent pueblos to coordinate activities carried out 
        under subparagraph (A) on the Preserve and adjacent pueblo 
        land.
        (9) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all land and 
    interests in land within the boundaries of the Preserve are 
    withdrawn from--
            (A) entry, disposal, or appropriation under the public land 
        laws;
            (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (C) operation of the mineral leasing laws, geothermal 
        leasing laws, and mineral materials laws.
        (10) Volcanic domes and other peaks.--
            (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (C), 
        for the purposes of preserving the natural, cultural, 
        religious, archaeological, and historic resources of the 
        volcanic domes and other peaks in the Preserve described in 
        subparagraph (B) within the area of the domes and peaks above 
        9,600 feet in elevation or 250 feet below the top of the dome, 
        whichever is lower--
                (i) no roads or buildings shall be constructed; and
                (ii) no motorized access shall be allowed.
            (B) Description of volcanic domes.--The volcanic domes and 
        other peaks referred to in subparagraph (A) are--
                (i) Redondo Peak;
                (ii) Redondito;
                (iii) South Mountain;
                (iv) San Antonio Mountain;
                (v) Cerro Seco;
                (vi) Cerro San Luis;
                (vii) Cerros Santa Rosa;
                (viii) Cerros del Abrigo;
                (ix) Cerro del Medio;
                (x) Rabbit Mountain;
                (xi) Cerro Grande;
                (xii) Cerro Toledo;
                (xiii) Indian Point;
                (xiv) Sierra de los Valles; and
                (xv) Cerros de los Posos.
            (C) Exception.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply in cases 
        in which construction or motorized access is necessary for 
        administrative purposes (including ecological restoration 
        activities or measures required in emergencies to protect the 
        health and safety of persons in the area).
        (11) Traditional cultural and religious sites.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with Indian 
        tribes and pueblos, shall ensure the protection of traditional 
        cultural and religious sites in the Preserve.
            (B) Access.--The Secretary, in accordance with Public Law 
        95-341 (commonly known as the ``American Indian Religious 
        Freedom Act'') (42 U.S.C. 1996)--
                (i) shall provide access to the sites described in 
            subparagraph (A) by members of Indian tribes or pueblos for 
            traditional cultural and customary uses; and
                (ii) may, on request of an Indian tribe or pueblo, 
            temporarily close to general public use 1 or more specific 
            areas of the Preserve to protect traditional cultural and 
            customary uses in the area by members of the Indian tribe 
            or pueblo.
            (C) Prohibition on motorized access.--The Secretary shall 
        maintain prohibitions on the use of motorized or mechanized 
        travel on Preserve land located adjacent to the Santa Clara 
        Indian Reservation, to the extent the prohibition was in effect 
        on the date of enactment of this Act.
        (12) Caldera rim trail.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Secretary of Agriculture, affected Indian tribes and pueblos, 
        and the public, shall study the feasibility of establishing a 
        hiking trail along the rim of the Valles Caldera on--
                (i) land within the Preserve; and
                (ii) National Forest System land that is adjacent to 
            the Preserve.
            (B) Agreements.--On the request of an affected Indian tribe 
        or pueblo, the Secretary and the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        seek to enter into an agreement with the Indian tribe or pueblo 
        with respect to the Caldera Rim Trail that provides for the 
        protection of--
                (i) cultural and religious sites in the vicinity of the 
            trail; and
                (ii) the privacy of adjacent pueblo land.
        (13) Valid existing rights.--Nothing in this section affects 
    valid existing rights.
    (c) Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction.--
        (1) In general.--Administrative jurisdiction over the Preserve 
    is transferred from the Secretary of Agriculture and the Trust to 
    the Secretary, to be administered as a unit of the National Park 
    System, in accordance with subsection (b).
        (2) Exclusion from santa fe national forest.--The boundaries of 
    the Santa Fe National Forest are modified to exclude the Preserve.
        (3) Interim management.--
            (A) Memorandum of agreement.--Not later than 90 days after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Trust 
        shall enter into a memorandum of agreement to facilitate the 
        orderly transfer to the Secretary of the administration of the 
        Preserve.
            (B) Existing management plans.--Notwithstanding the repeal 
        made by subsection (d)(1), until the date on which the 
        Secretary completes a management plan for the Preserve in 
        accordance with subsection (b)(3)(C), the Secretary may 
        administer the Preserve in accordance with any management 
        activities or plans adopted by the Trust under the Valles 
        Caldera Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 698v et seq.), to the 
        extent the activities or plans are consistent with subsection 
        (b)(3)(A).
            (C) Public use.--The Preserve shall remain open to public 
        use during the interim management period, subject to such terms 
        and conditions as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
        (4) Valles caldera trust.--
            (A) Termination.--The Trust shall terminate 180 days after 
        the date of enactment of this Act unless the Secretary 
        determines that the termination date should be extended to 
        facilitate the transitional management of the Preserve.
            (B) Assets and liabilities.--
                (i) Assets.--On termination of the Trust--

                    (I) all assets of the Trust shall be transferred to 
                the Secretary; and
                    (II) any amounts appropriated for the Trust shall 
                remain available to the Secretary for the 
                administration of the Preserve.

                (ii) Assumption of obligations.--

                    (I) In general.--On termination of the Trust, the 
                Secretary shall assume all contracts, obligations, and 
                other liabilities of the Trust.
                    (II) New liabilities.--

                        (aa) Budget.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                    date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary and 
                    the Trust shall prepare a budget for the interim 
                    management of the Preserve.
                        (bb) Written concurrence required.--The Trust 
                    shall not incur any new liabilities not authorized 
                    in the budget prepared under item (aa) without the 
                    written concurrence of the Secretary.
            (C) Personnel.--
                (i) Hiring.--The Secretary and the Secretary of 
            Agriculture may hire employees of the Trust on a 
            noncompetitive basis for comparable positions at the 
            Preserve or other areas or offices under the jurisdiction 
            of the Secretary or the Secretary of Agriculture.
                (ii) Salary.--Any employees hired from the Trust under 
            clause (i) shall be subject to the provisions of chapter 
            51, and subchapter III of chapter 53, title 5, United 
            States Code, relating to classification and General 
            Schedule pay rates.
                (iii) Interim retention of eligible employees.--For a 
            period of not less than 180 days beginning on the date of 
            enactment of this Act, all eligible employees of the Trust 
            shall be--

                    (I) retained in the employment of the Trust;
                    (II) considered to be placed on detail to the 
                Secretary; and
                    (III) subject to the direction of the Secretary.

                (iv) Termination for cause.--Nothing in this 
            subparagraph precludes the termination of employment of an 
            eligible employee for cause during the period described in 
            clause (iii).
            (D) Records.--The Secretary shall have access to all 
        records of the Trust pertaining to the management of the 
        Preserve.
            (E) Valles caldera fund.--
                (i) In general.--Effective on the date of enactment of 
            this Act, the Secretary shall assume the powers of the 
            Trust over the Fund.
                (ii) Availability and use.--Any amounts in the Fund as 
            of the date of enactment of this Act shall be available to 
            the Secretary for use, without further appropriation, for 
            the management of the Preserve.
    (d) Repeal of Valles Caldera Preservation Act.--
        (1) Repeal.--On the termination of the Trust, the Valles 
    Caldera Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 698v et seq.) is repealed.
        (2) Effect of repeal.--Notwithstanding the repeal made by 
    paragraph (1)--
            (A) the authority of the Secretary of Agriculture to 
        acquire mineral interests under section 104(e) of the Valles 
        Caldera Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 698v-2(e)) is transferred 
        to the Secretary and any proceeding for the condemnation of, or 
        payment of compensation for, an outstanding mineral interest 
        pursuant to the transferred authority shall continue;
            (B) the provisions in section 104(g) of the Valles Caldera 
        Preservation Act (16 U.S.C. 698v-2(g)) relating to the Pueblo 
        of Santa Clara shall remain in effect; and
            (C) the Fund shall not be terminated until all amounts in 
        the Fund have been expended by the Secretary.
        (3) Boundaries.--The repeal of the Valles Caldera Preservation 
    Act (16 U.S.C. 698v et seq.) shall not affect the boundaries as of 
    the date of enactment of this Act (including maps and legal 
    descriptions) of--
            (A) the Preserve;
            (B) the Santa Fe National Forest (other than the 
        modification made by subsection (c)(2));
            (C) Bandelier National Monument; and
            (D) any land conveyed to the Pueblo of Santa Clara.
SEC. 3044. VICKSBURG NATIONAL MILITARY PARK.
    (a) Acquisition of Land.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in 
    this section as the ``Secretary'') may acquire the land or any 
    interests in land within the area identified as ``Modified Core 
    Battlefield'' for the Port Gibson Unit, the Champion Hill Unit, and 
    the Raymond Unit as generally depicted on the map entitled 
    ``Vicksburg National Military Park--Proposed Battlefield 
    Additions'', numbered 306/100986A (4 sheets), and dated July 2012.
        (2) Methods of acquisition.--Land may be acquired under 
    paragraph (1) by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated 
    funds, or exchange, except that land owned by the State of 
    Mississippi or any political subdivisions of the State may be 
    acquired only by donation.
    (b) Availability of Map.--The map described in subsection (a)(1) 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
offices of the National Park Service.
    (c) Boundary Adjustment.--On the acquisition of land by the 
Secretary under this section--
        (1) the acquired land shall be added to Vicksburg National 
    Military Park;
        (2) the boundary of the Vicksburg National Military Park shall 
    be adjusted to reflect the acquisition of the land; and
        (3) the acquired land shall be administered as part of the 
    Vicksburg National Military Park in accordance with applicable laws 
    (including regulations).

   Subtitle D--National Park System Studies, Management, and Related 
                                Matters

SEC. 3050. REVOLUTIONARY WAR AND WAR OF 1812 AMERICAN BATTLEFIELD 
PROTECTION PROGRAM.
    Section 7301(c) of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 2009 
(Public Law 111-11) is amended as follows:
        (1) In paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(A) Battlefield report.--The term `battlefield report' 
        means, collectively--
                ``(i) the report entitled `Report on the Nation's Civil 
            War Battlefields', prepared by the Civil War Sites Advisory 
            Commission, and dated July 1993; and
                ``(ii) the report entitled `Report to Congress on the 
            Historic Preservation of Revolutionary War and War of 1812 
            Sites in the United States', prepared by the National Park 
            Service, and dated September 2007.''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (C)(ii), by striking ``Battlefield 
        Report'' and inserting ``battlefield report''.
        (2) In paragraph (2), by inserting ``eligible sites or'' after 
    ``acquiring''.
        (3) In paragraph (3), by inserting ``an eligible site or'' 
    after ``acquire''.
        (4) In paragraph (4), by inserting ``an eligible site or'' 
    after ``acquiring''.
        (5) In paragraph (5), by striking ``An'' and inserting ``An 
    eligible site or an''.
        (6) By redesignating paragraph (6) as paragraph (9).
        (7) By inserting after paragraph (5) the following new 
    paragraphs:
        ``(6) Willing sellers.--Acquisition of land or interests in 
    land under this subsection shall be from willing sellers only.
        ``(7) Report.--Not later than 5 years after the date of the 
    enactment of this paragraph, the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
    a report on the activities carried out under this subsection, 
    including a description of--
            ``(A) preservation activities carried out at the 
        battlefields and associated sites identified in the battlefield 
        report during the period between publication of the battlefield 
        report and the report required under this paragraph;
            ``(B) changes in the condition of the battlefields and 
        associated sites during that period; and
            ``(C) any other relevant developments relating to the 
        battlefields and associated sites during that period.
        ``(8) Prohibition on lobbying.--None of the funds provided 
    pursuant to this section shall be used in any way, directly or 
    indirectly, to influence congressional action on any legislation or 
    appropriation matters pending before Congress.''.
        (8) In paragraph (9) (as redesignated by paragraph (6)), by 
    striking ``2014'' and inserting ``2021''.
SEC. 3051. SPECIAL RESOURCE STUDIES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this 
section as the ``Secretary'') shall conduct a special resource study 
regarding each area, site, and issue identified in subsection (b) to 
evaluate--
        (1) the national significance of the area, site, or issue; and
        (2) the suitability and feasibility of designating such an area 
    or site as a unit of the National Park System.
    (b) Studies.--The areas, sites, and issues referred to in 
subsection (a) are the following:
        (1) Lower mississippi river, louisiana.--Sites along the lower 
    Mississippi River in the State of Louisiana, including Fort St. 
    Philip, Fort Jackson, the Head of Passes, and any related and 
    supporting historical, cultural, or recreational resource located 
    in Plaquemines Parish, Louisiana.
        (2) Buffalo soldiers.--The role of the Buffalo Soldiers in the 
    early years of the National Park System, including an evaluation of 
    appropriate ways to enhance historical research, education, 
    interpretation, and public awareness of the story of the 
    stewardship role of the Buffalo Soldiers in the National Parks, 
    including ways to link the story to the development of National 
    Parks and the story of African-American military service following 
    the Civil War.
        (3) Rota, commonwealth of northern mariana islands.--
    Prehistoric, historic, and limestone forest sites on the island of 
    Rota, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
        (4) Prison ship monument, new york.--The Prison Ship Martyrs' 
    Monument in Fort Greene Park, Brooklyn, New York.
        (5) Flushing remonstrance, new york.--The John Bowne House, 
    located at 3701 Bowne Street, Queens, New York, the Friends Meeting 
    House located at 137-17 Northern Boulevard, Queens, New York, and 
    other resources in the vicinity of Flushing, New York, relating to 
    the history of religious freedom during the era of the signing of 
    the Flushing Remonstrance.
        (6) West hunter street baptist church, georgia.--The historic 
    West Hunter Street Baptist Church, located at 775 Martin Luther 
    King Jr. Drive, SW, Atlanta, Georgia, and the block on which the 
    church is located.
        (7) Mill springs battlefield, kentucky.--The area encompassed 
    by the National Historic Landmark designations relating to the 1862 
    Battle of Mill Springs located in Pulaski and Wayne Counties in the 
    State of Kentucky.
        (8) New philadelphia, illinois.--The New Philadelphia 
    archeological site and surrounding land in the State of Illinois.
    (c) Criteria.--In conducting a study under this section, the 
Secretary shall use the criteria for the study of areas for potential 
inclusion in the National Park System described in section 8(c) of 
Public Law 91-383 (commonly known as the ``National Park System General 
Authorities Act'') (16 U.S.C. 1a-5(c)).
    (d) Contents.--Each study authorized by this section shall--
        (1) determine the suitability and feasibility of designating 
    the applicable area or site as a unit of the National Park System;
        (2) include cost estimates for any necessary acquisition, 
    development, operation, and maintenance of the applicable area or 
    site;
        (3) include an analysis of the effect of the applicable area or 
    site on--
            (A) existing commercial and recreational activities;
            (B) the authorization, construction, operation, 
        maintenance, or improvement of energy production and 
        transmission or other infrastructure in the area; and
            (C) the authority of State and local governments to manage 
        those activities;
        (4) include an identification of any authorities, including 
    condemnation, that will compel or permit the Secretary to influence 
    or participate in local land use decisions (such as zoning) or 
    place restrictions on non-Federal land if the applicable area or 
    site is designated as a unit of the National Park System; and
        (5) identify alternatives for the management, administration, 
    and protection of the applicable area or site.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds 
are made available to carry out a study authorized by this section, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate a report the describes--
        (1) the findings and recommendations of the study; and
        (2) any applicable recommendations of the Secretary.
SEC. 3052. NATIONAL HERITAGE AREAS AND CORRIDORS.
    (a) Extension of National Heritage Area Authorities.--
        (1) Extensions.--
            (A) Section 12 of Public Law 100-692 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; 
        102 Stat. 4558; 112 Stat. 3258; 123 Stat. 1292; 127 Stat. 420; 
        128 Stat. 314) is amended--
                (i) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``2015'' and 
            inserting ``2021''; and
                (ii) in subsection (d), by striking ``2015'' and 
            inserting ``2021''.
            (B) Division II of Public Law 104-333 (16 U.S.C. 461 note) 
        is amended by striking ``2015'' each place it appears in the 
        following sections and inserting ``2021'':
                (i) Section 107 (110 Stat. 4244; 127 Stat. 420; 128 
            Stat. 314).
                (ii) Section 408 (110 Stat. 4256; 127 Stat. 420; 128 
            Stat. 314).
                (iii) Section 507 (110 Stat. 4260; 127 Stat. 420; 128 
            Stat. 314).
                (iv) Section 707 (110 Stat. 4267; 127 Stat. 420; 128 
            Stat. 314).
                (v) Section 809 (110 Stat. 4275; 122 Stat. 826; 127 
            Stat. 420; 128 Stat. 314).
                (vi) Section 910 (110 Stat. 4281; 127 Stat. 420; 128 
            Stat. 314).
            (C) Section 109 of Public Law 105-355 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; 
        112 Stat. 3252) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2014'' 
        and inserting ``September 30, 2021''.
            (D) Public Law 106-278 (16 U.S.C. 461 note) is amended--
                (i) in section 108 (114 Stat. 818; 127 Stat. 420; 128 
            Stat. 314), by striking ``2015'' and inserting ``2021''; 
            and
                (ii) in section 209 (114 Stat. 824), by striking ``the 
            date that is 15 years after the date of enactment of this 
            title'' and inserting ``September 30, 2021''.
            (E) Section 157(i) of Public Law 106-291 (16 U.S.C. 461 
        note; 114 Stat. 967) is amended by striking ``2015'' and 
        inserting ``2021''.
            (F) Section 7 of Public Law 106-319 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; 
        114 Stat. 1284) is amended by striking ``2015'' and inserting 
        ``2021''.
            (G) Title VIII of division B of H.R. 5666 (Appendix D) as 
        enacted into law by section 1(a)(4) of Public Law 106-554 (16 
        U.S.C. 461 note; 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-295; 123 Stat. 1294) is 
        amended--
                (i) in section 804(j), by striking ``the day occurring 
            15 years after the date of enactment of this title'' and 
            inserting ``September 30, 2021''; and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following:
    ``SEC. 811. TERMINATION OF ASSISTANCE.
    ``The authority of the Secretary to provide financial assistance 
under this title shall terminate on September 30, 2021.''.
            (H) Section 106(b) of Public Law 103-449 (16 U.S.C. 461 
        note; 108 Stat. 4755; 113 Stat. 1726; 123 Stat. 1291) is 
        amended, by striking ``2015'' and inserting ``2021''.
        (2) Conditional extension of authorities.--
            (A) In general.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
        (other than the amendments made by clauses (iii) and (iv) of 
        paragraph (1)(B)), shall apply only through September 30, 2020, 
        unless the Secretary of the Interior (referred to in this 
        section as the ``Secretary'')--
                (i) conducts an evaluation of the accomplishments of 
            the national heritage areas extended under paragraph (1), 
            in accordance with subparagraph (B); and
                (ii) prepares a report in accordance with subparagraph 
            (C) that recommends a future role for the National Park 
            Service with respect to the applicable national heritage 
            area.
            (B) Evaluation.--An evaluation conducted under subparagraph 
        (A)(i) shall--
                (i) assess the progress of the local management entity 
            with respect to--

                    (I) accomplishing the purposes of the authorizing 
                legislation for the national heritage area; and
                    (II) achieving the goals and objectives of the 
                approved management plan for the national heritage 
                area;

                (ii) analyze the investments of Federal, State, tribal, 
            and local government and private entities in each national 
            heritage area to determine the impact of the investments; 
            and
                (iii) review the management structure, partnership 
            relationships, and funding of the national heritage area 
            for purposes of identifying the critical components for 
            sustainability of the national heritage area.
            (C) Report.--Based on the evaluation conducted under 
        subparagraph (A)(i), the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
        a report that includes recommendations for the future role of 
        the National Park Service with respect to the national heritage 
        area.
    (b) John H. Chafee Blackstone River Valley National Heritage 
Corridor Amendments.--Public Law 99-647 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; 100 Stat. 
3625) is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence of section 2 (110 Stat. 4202), by 
    striking ``the map entitled `Blackstone River Valley National 
    Heritage Corridor Boundary Map', numbered BRV-80-80,011, and dated 
    May 2, 1993'' and inserting ``the map entitled `John H. Chafee 
    Blackstone River Valley National Heritage Corridor--Proposed 
    Boundary', numbered 022/111530, and dated November 10, 2011'';
        (2) in section 7 (120 Stat. 1858; 125 Stat. 155)--
            (A) in the section heading, by striking ``termination of 
        commission'' and inserting ``termination of commission; 
        designation of local coordinating entity'';
            (B) by striking ``The Commission'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Commission''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Local Coordinating Entity.--
        ``(1) Designation.--The Commission shall select, subject to the 
    approval of the Secretary, a qualified nonprofit organization to be 
    the local coordinating entity for the Corridor (referred to in this 
    section as the `local coordinating entity').
        ``(2) Implementation of management plan.--The local 
    coordinating entity shall assume the duties of the Commission for 
    the implementation of the Cultural Heritage and Land Management 
    Plan developed and approved under section 6.
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--For the purposes of carrying out the 
management plan, the local coordinating entity may use amounts made 
available under this Act--
        ``(1) to make grants to the States of Massachusetts and Rhode 
    Island (referred to in this section as the `States'), political 
    subdivisions of the States, nonprofit organizations, and other 
    persons;
        ``(2) to enter into cooperative agreements with or provide 
    technical assistance to the States, political subdivisions of the 
    States, nonprofit organizations, Federal agencies, and other 
    interested parties;
        ``(3) to hire and compensate staff, including individuals with 
    expertise in--
            ``(A) natural, historical, cultural, educational, scenic, 
        and recreational resource conservation;
            ``(B) economic and community development; or
            ``(C) heritage planning;
        ``(4) to obtain funds or services from any source, including 
    funds and services provided under any other Federal law or program;
        ``(5) to contract for goods or services; and
        ``(6) to support activities of partners and any other 
    activities that further the purposes of the Corridor and are 
    consistent with the approved management plan.'';
        (3) in section 8 (120 Stat. 1858)--
            (A) in subsection (b)--
                (i) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
            following:
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary''; and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(2) Cooperative agreements.--Notwithstanding chapter 63 of 
    title 31, United States Code, the Secretary may enter into 
    cooperative agreements with the local coordinating entity selected 
    under paragraph (1) and other public or private entities for the 
    purpose of--
            ``(A) providing technical assistance; or
            ``(B) implementing the plan under section 6(c).''; and
            (B) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following:
    ``(d) Transition Memorandum of Understanding.--The Secretary shall 
enter into a memorandum of understanding with the local coordinating 
entity to ensure--
        ``(1) the appropriate transition of management of the Corridor 
    from the Commission to the local coordinating entity; and
        ``(2) coordination regarding the implementation of the Cultural 
    Heritage and Land Management Plan.'';
        (4) in section 10 (104 Stat. 1018; 120 Stat. 1858)--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``in which the 
        Commission is in existence'' and inserting ``until September 
        30, 2021''; and
            (B) by striking subsection (c); and
        (5) by adding at the end the following:
  ``SEC. 11. REFERENCES TO THE COMMISSION.
    ``For purposes of sections 6, 8 (other than section 8(d)(1)), 9, 
and 10, a reference to the `Commission' shall be considered to be a 
reference to the local coordinating entity.''.
    (c) National Heritage Area Redesignations.--
        (1) Redesignation of the last green valley national heritage 
    corridor.--
            (A) In general.--The Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley 
        National Heritage Corridor Act of 1994 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; 
        Public Law 103-449) is amended--
                (i) in section 103--

                    (I) in the heading, by striking ``quinebaug and 
                shetucket rivers valley national heritage corridor'' 
                and inserting ``last green valley national heritage 
                corridor''; and
                    (II) in subsection (a), by striking ``the Quinebaug 
                and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage 
                Corridor'' and inserting ``The Last Green Valley 
                National Heritage Corridor''; and

                (ii) in section 108(2), by striking ``the Quinebaug and 
            Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage Corridor under'' 
            and inserting ``The Last Green Valley National Heritage 
            Corridor established by''.
            (B) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
        document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
        Quinebaug and Shetucket Rivers Valley National Heritage 
        Corridor shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``The Last 
        Green Valley National Heritage Corridor''.
        (2) Redesignation of motorcities national heritage area.--
            (A) In general.--The Automobile National Heritage Area Act 
        of 1998 (16 U.S.C. 461 note; Public Law 105-355) is amended--
                (i) in section 102--

                    (I) in subsection (a)--

                        (aa) in paragraph (7), by striking ``Automobile 
                    National Heritage Area Partnership'' and inserting 
                    ``MotorCities National Heritage Area Partnership''; 
                    and
                        (bb) in paragraph (8), by striking ``Automobile 
                    National Heritage Area'' each place it appears and 
                    inserting ``MotorCities National Heritage Area''; 
                    and

                    (II) in subsection (b)--

                        (aa) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                    striking ``Automobile National Heritage Area'' and 
                    inserting ``MotorCities National Heritage Area''; 
                    and
                        (bb) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Automobile 
                    National Heritage Area'' and inserting 
                    ``MotorCities National Heritage Area'';
                (ii) in section 103--

                    (I) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Automobile 
                National Heritage Area'' and inserting ``MotorCities 
                National Heritage Area''; and
                    (II) in paragraph (3), by striking ``Automobile 
                National Heritage Area Partnership'' and inserting 
                ``MotorCities National Heritage Area Partnership'';

                (iii) in section 104--

                    (I) in the heading, by striking ``automobile 
                national heritage area'' and inserting ``motorcities 
                national heritage area''; and
                    (II) in subsection (a), by striking ``Automobile 
                National Heritage Area'' and inserting ``MotorCities 
                National Heritage area''; and

                (iv) in section 106, in the heading, by striking 
            ``automobile national heritage area partnership'' and 
            inserting ``motorcities national heritage area 
            partnership''.
            (B) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, 
        document, paper, or other record of the United States to the 
        Automobile National Heritage Area shall be deemed to be a 
        reference to the ``MotorCities National Heritage Area''.
SEC. 3053. NATIONAL HISTORIC SITE SUPPORT FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS.
    (a) Improvement.--The Secretary of the Interior, acting through the 
Director of the National Park Service (referred to in this section as 
the ``Secretary''), may make improvements to a support facility, 
including a visitor center, for a National Historic Site operated by 
the National Park Service if the project--
        (1) is conducted using amounts included in the budget of the 
    National Park Service in effect on the date on which the project is 
    authorized;
        (2) is subject to a 50 percent non-Federal cost-sharing 
    requirement; and
        (3) is conducted in an area in which the National Park Service 
    was authorized by law in effect before the date of enactment of 
    this Act to establish a support facility.
    (b) Operation and Use.--The Secretary may operate and use all or 
part of a support facility, including a visitor center, for a National 
Historic Site operated by the National Park Service--
        (1) to carry out duties associated with operating and 
    supporting the National Historic Site; and
        (2) only in accordance with an agreement between the Secretary 
    and the unit of local government in which the support facility is 
    located.
SEC. 3054. NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM DONOR ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Donor acknowledgment.--The term ``donor acknowledgment'' 
    means an appropriate statement or credit acknowledging a donation.
        (2) National park system.--The term ``National Park System'' 
    includes each program and individual unit of the National Park 
    System.
        (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
    (b) Donor Acknowledgments in Units of National Park System.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary may authorize a donor 
    acknowledgment to recognize a donation to--
            (A) the National Park Service; or
            (B) the National Park System.
        (2) Restrictions.--A donor acknowledgment shall not be used to 
    state or imply--
            (A) recognition of the donor or any product or service of 
        the donor as an official sponsor, or any similar form of 
        recognition, of the National Park Service or the National Park 
        System;
            (B) a National Park Service endorsement of the donor or any 
        product or service of the donor; or
            (C) naming rights to any unit of the National Park System 
        or a National Park System facility, including a visitor center.
        (3) Requirements.--
            (A) Display.--A donor acknowledgment shall be displayed--
                (i) in a manner that is approved by the Secretary; and
                (ii) for a period of time, as determined by the 
            Secretary, that is commensurate with the amount of the 
            contribution and the life of the structure.
            (B) Guidelines.--The Secretary shall establish donor 
        acknowledgment guidelines that take into account the unique 
        requirements of individual units and programs of the National 
        Park System.
            (C) Use of slogans prohibited.--A donor acknowledgment 
        shall not permit the use of--
                (i) an advertising slogan; or
                (ii) a statement or credit promoting or opposing a 
            political candidate or issue.
        (4) Placement.--
            (A) Visitor and administrative facilities.--A donor 
        acknowledgment may be located on or inside a visitor center or 
        administrative facility of the National Park System (including 
        in a specific room or section) or any other appropriate 
        location, such as on a donor recognition wall or plaque.
            (B) Outside.--A donor acknowledgment may be located in an 
        area outside of a visitor or administrative facility described 
        in subparagraph (A), including a bench, brick, pathway, area of 
        landscaping, or plaza.
            (C) Projects.--A donor acknowledgment may be located near a 
        park construction or restoration project, if the donation 
        directly relates to the project.
            (D) Vehicles.--A donor acknowledgment may be placed on a 
        National Park Service vehicle, if the donation directly relates 
        to the vehicle.
            (E) Limitation.--Any donor acknowledgment associated with a 
        historic structure or placed outside a park restoration 
        project--
                (i) shall be freestanding; and
                (ii) shall not obstruct a natural or historical site or 
            view.
        (5) Printed, digital, and media platforms.--The Secretary may 
    authorize the use of donor acknowledgments under this subsection to 
    include donor acknowledgments on printed, digital, and media 
    platforms, including brochures or Internet websites relating to a 
    specific unit of the National Park System.
    (c) Commemorative Works Act Amendments.--Section 8905 of title 40, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b), by striking paragraph (7); and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Donor Contributions.--
        ``(1) Acknowledgment of donor contribution.--Except as 
    otherwise provided in this subsection, the Secretary of the 
    Interior or Administrator of General Services, as applicable, may 
    permit a sponsor to acknowledge donor contributions at the 
    commemorative work.
        ``(2) Requirements.--An acknowledgment under paragraph (1) 
    shall--
            ``(A) be displayed--
                ``(i) inside an ancillary structure associated with the 
            commemorative work; or
                ``(ii) as part of a manmade landscape feature at the 
            commemorative work; and
            ``(B) conform to applicable National Park Service or 
        General Services Administration guidelines for donor 
        recognition, as applicable.
        ``(3) Limitations.--An acknowledgment under paragraph (1) 
    shall--
            ``(A) be limited to an appropriate statement or credit 
        recognizing the contribution;
            ``(B) be displayed in a form in accordance with National 
        Park Service and General Services Administration guidelines;
            ``(C) be displayed for a period of up to 10 years, with the 
        display period to be commensurate with the level of the 
        contribution, as determined in accordance with the plan and 
        guidelines described in subparagraph (B);
            ``(D) be freestanding; and
            ``(E) not be affixed to--
                ``(i) any landscape feature at the commemorative work; 
            or
                ``(ii) any object in a museum collection.
        ``(4) Cost.--The sponsor shall bear all expenses related to the 
    display of donor acknowledgments under paragraph (1).
        ``(5) Applicability.--This subsection shall apply to any 
    commemorative work dedicated after January 1, 2010.''.
    (d) Effect of Section.--Nothing in this section or an amendment 
made by this section--
        (1) requires the Secretary to accept a donation; or
        (2) modifies section 145 of Public Law 108-108 (16 U.S.C. 1a-1 
    note; 117 Stat. 1280).
SEC. 3055. COIN TO COMMEMORATE 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE NATIONAL PARK 
SERVICE.
    (a) Coin Specifications.--
        (1) Denominations.--The Secretary of the Treasury (in this 
    section referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall mint and issue the 
    following coins:
            (A) $5 gold coins.--Not more than 100,000 $5 coins, which 
        shall--
                (i) weigh 8.359 grams;
                (ii) have a diameter of 0.850 inches; and
                (iii) contain 90 percent gold and 10 percent alloy.
            (B) $1 silver coins.--Not more than 500,000 $1 coins, which 
        shall--
                (i) weigh 26.73 grams;
                (ii) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
                (iii) contain 90 percent silver and 10 percent copper.
            (C) Half dollar clad coins.--Not more than 750,000 half 
        dollar coins, which shall--
                (i) weigh 11.34 grams;
                (ii) have a diameter of 1.205 inches; and
                (iii) be minted to the specifications for half dollar 
            coins, contained in section 5112(b) of title 31, United 
            States Code.
        (2) Legal tender.--The coins minted under this section shall be 
    legal tender, as provided in section 5103 of title 31, United 
    States Code.
        (3) Numismatic items.--For purposes of sections 5134 and 5136 
    of title 31, United States Code, all coins minted under this 
    section shall be considered to be numismatic items.
    (b) Design of Coins.--
        (1) Design requirements.--
            (A) In general.--The design of the coins minted under this 
        section shall be emblematic of the 100th anniversary of the 
        National Park Service.
            (B) Designation and inscriptions.--On each coin minted 
        under this section there shall be--
                (i) a designation of the face value of the coin;
                (ii) an inscription of the year ``2016''; and
                (iii) inscriptions of the words ``Liberty'', ``In God 
            We Trust'', ``United States of America'', and ``E Pluribus 
            Unum''.
        (2) Selection.--The design for the coins minted under this 
    section shall be--
            (A) selected by the Secretary after consultation with--
                (i) the National Park Service;
                (ii) the National Park Foundation; and
                (iii) the Commission of Fine Arts; and
            (B) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advisory Committee.
    (c) Issuance of Coins.--
        (1) Quality of coins.--Coins minted under this section shall be 
    issued in uncirculated and proof qualities.
        (2) Period for issuance.--The Secretary may issue coins minted 
    under this section only during the period beginning on January 1, 
    2016, and ending on December 31, 2016.
    (d) Sale of Coins.--
        (1) Sale price.--The coins issued under this section shall be 
    sold by the Secretary at a price equal to the sum of--
            (A) the face value of the coins;
            (B) the surcharge provided in subsection (e)(1) with 
        respect to the coins; and
            (C) the cost of designing and issuing the coins (including 
        labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses, 
        marketing, and shipping).
        (2) Bulk sales.--The Secretary shall make bulk sales of the 
    coins issued under this section at a reasonable discount.
        (3) Prepaid orders.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall accept prepaid orders 
        for the coins minted under this section before the issuance of 
        such coins.
            (B) Discount.--Sale prices with respect to prepaid orders 
        under subparagraph (A) shall be at a reasonable discount.
    (e) Surcharges.--
        (1) In general.--All sales of coins minted under this section 
    shall include a surcharge as follows:
            (A) A surcharge of $35 per coin for the $5 coin.
            (B) A surcharge of $10 per coin for the $1 coin.
            (C) A surcharge of $5 per coin for the half dollar coin.
        (2) Distribution.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to section 5134(f) of title 31, 
        United States Code, all surcharges which are received by the 
        Secretary from the sale of coins issued under this section 
        shall be promptly paid by the Secretary to the National Park 
        Foundation for projects and programs that help preserve and 
        protect resources under the stewardship of the National Park 
        Service and promote public enjoyment and appreciation of those 
        resources.
            (B) Prohibition on land acquisition.--Surcharges paid to 
        the National Park Foundation pursuant to subparagraph (A) may 
        not be used for land acquisition.
        (3) Audits.--The National Park Foundation shall be subject to 
    the audit requirements of section 5134(f)(2) of title 31, United 
    States Code, with regard to the amounts received by the Foundation 
    under paragraph (2).
        (4) Limitations.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), no surcharge 
    may be included with respect to the issuance under this section of 
    any coin during a calendar year if, as of the time of such 
    issuance, the issuance of such coin would result in the number of 
    commemorative coin programs issued during such year to exceed the 
    annual 2 commemorative coin program issuance limitation under 
    section 5112(m)(1) of title 31, United States Code (as in effect on 
    the date of the enactment of this Act). The Secretary of the 
    Treasury may issue guidance to carry out this paragraph.
    (f) Financial Assurances.--The Secretary shall take such actions as 
may be necessary to ensure that--
        (1) minting and issuing coins under this section will not 
    result in any net cost to the United States Government; and
        (2) no funds, including applicable surcharges, shall be 
    disbursed to any recipient designated in subsection (e) until the 
    total cost of designing and issuing all of the coins authorized by 
    this section (including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, 
    overhead expenses, marketing, and shipping) is recovered by the 
    United States Treasury, consistent with sections 5112(m) and 
    5134(f) of title 31, United States Code.
    (g) Budget Compliance.--The budgetary effects of this section, for 
the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, 
shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled 
``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation'' for this section, submitted 
for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the 
Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
SEC. 3056. COMMISSION TO STUDY THE POTENTIAL CREATION OF A NATIONAL 
WOMEN'S HISTORY MUSEUM.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the Commission 
    to Study the Potential Creation of a National Women's History 
    Museum established by subsection (b)(1).
        (2) Museum.--The term ``Museum'' means the National Women's 
    History Museum.
    (b) Establishment of Commission.--
        (1) In general.--There is established the Commission to Study 
    the Potential Creation of a National Women's History Museum.
        (2) Membership.--The Commission shall be composed of 8 members, 
    of whom--
            (A) 2 members shall be appointed by the majority leader of 
        the Senate;
            (B) 2 members shall be appointed by the Speaker of the 
        House of Representatives;
            (C) 2 members shall be appointed by the minority leader of 
        the Senate; and
            (D) 2 members shall be appointed by the minority leader of 
        the House of Representatives.
        (3) Qualifications.--Members of the Commission shall be 
    appointed to the Commission from among individuals, or 
    representatives of institutions or entities, who possess--
            (A)(i) a demonstrated commitment to the research, study, or 
        promotion of women's history, art, political or economic 
        status, or culture; and
            (ii)(I) expertise in museum administration;
            (II) expertise in fundraising for nonprofit or cultural 
        institutions;
            (III) experience in the study and teaching of women's 
        history;
            (IV) experience in studying the issue of the representation 
        of women in art, life, history, and culture at the Smithsonian 
        Institution; or
            (V) extensive experience in public or elected service;
            (B) experience in the administration of, or the planning 
        for, the establishment of, museums; or
            (C) experience in the planning, design, or construction of 
        museum facilities.
        (4) Prohibition.--No employee of the Federal Government may 
    serve as a member of the Commission.
        (5) Deadline for initial appointment.--The initial members of 
    the Commission shall be appointed not later than the date that is 
    90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
        (6) Vacancies.--A vacancy in the Commission--
            (A) shall not affect the powers of the Commission; and
            (B) shall be filled in the same manner as the original 
        appointment was made.
        (7) Chairperson.--The Commission shall, by majority vote of all 
    of the members, select 1 member of the Commission to serve as the 
    Chairperson of the Commission.
    (c) Duties of the Commission.--
        (1) Reports.--
            (A) Plan of action.--The Commission shall submit to the 
        President and Congress a report containing the recommendations 
        of the Commission with respect to a plan of action for the 
        establishment and maintenance of a National Women's History 
        Museum in Washington, DC.
            (B) Report on issues.--The Commission shall submit to the 
        President and Congress a report that addresses the following 
        issues:
                (i) The availability and cost of collections to be 
            acquired and housed in the Museum.
                (ii) The impact of the Museum on regional women 
            history-related museums.
                (iii) Potential locations for the Museum in Washington, 
            DC, and its environs.
                (iv) Whether the Museum should be part of the 
            Smithsonian Institution.
                (v) The governance and organizational structure from 
            which the Museum should operate.
                (vi) Best practices for engaging women in the 
            development and design of the Museum.
                (vii) The cost of constructing, operating, and 
            maintaining the Museum.
            (C) Deadline.--The reports required under subparagraphs (A) 
        and (B) shall be submitted not later than the date that is 18 
        months after the date of the first meeting of the Commission.
        (2) Fundraising plan.--
            (A) In general.--The Commission shall develop a fundraising 
        plan to support the establishment, operation, and maintenance 
        of the Museum through contributions from the public.
            (B) Considerations.--In developing the fundraising plan 
        under subparagraph (A), the Commission shall consider--
                (i) the role of the National Women's History Museum (a 
            nonprofit, educational organization described in section 
            501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 that was 
            incorporated in 1996 in Washington, DC, and dedicated for 
            the purpose of establishing a women's history museum) in 
            raising funds for the construction of the Museum; and
                (ii) issues relating to funding the operations and 
            maintenance of the Museum in perpetuity without reliance on 
            appropriations of Federal funds.
            (C) Independent review.--The Commission shall obtain an 
        independent review of the viability of the plan developed under 
        subparagraph (A) and such review shall include an analysis as 
        to whether the plan is likely to achieve the level of resources 
        necessary to fund the construction of the Museum and the 
        operations and maintenance of the Museum in perpetuity without 
        reliance on appropriations of Federal funds.
            (D) Submission.--The Commission shall submit the plan 
        developed under subparagraph (A) and the review conducted under 
        subparagraph (C) to the Committees on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure, House Administration, Natural Resources, and 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committees on Rules and Administration, Energy and Natural 
        Resources, and Appropriations of the Senate.
        (3) Legislation to carry out plan of action.--Based on the 
    recommendations contained in the report submitted under 
    subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1), the Commission shall 
    submit for consideration to the Committees on Transportation and 
    Infrastructure, House Administration, Natural Resources, and 
    Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committees 
    on Rules and Administration, Energy and Natural Resources, and 
    Appropriations of the Senate recommendations for a legislative plan 
    of action to establish and construct the Museum.
        (4) National conference.--Not later than 18 months after the 
    date on which the initial members of the Commission are appointed 
    under subsection (b), the Commission may, in carrying out the 
    duties of the Commission under this subsection, convene a national 
    conference relating to the Museum, to be comprised of individuals 
    committed to the advancement of the life, art, history, and culture 
    of women.
    (d) Director and Staff of Commission.--
        (1) Director and staff.--
            (A) In general.--The Commission may employ and compensate 
        an executive director and any other additional personnel that 
        are necessary to enable the Commission to perform the duties of 
        the Commission.
            (B) Rates of pay.--Rates of pay for persons employed under 
        subparagraph (A) shall be consistent with the rates of pay 
        allowed for employees of a temporary organization under section 
        3161 of title 5, United States Code.
        (2) Not federal employment.--Any individual employed under this 
    section shall not be considered a Federal employee for the purpose 
    of any law governing Federal employment.
        (3) Technical assistance.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), on request of 
        the Commission, the head of a Federal agency may provide 
        technical assistance to the Commission.
            (B) Prohibition.--No Federal employees may be detailed to 
        the Commission.
    (e) Administrative Provisions.--
        (1) Compensation.--
            (A) In general.--A member of the Commission--
                (i) shall not be considered to be a Federal employee 
            for any purpose by reason of service on the Commission; and
                (ii) shall serve without pay.
            (B) Travel expenses.--A member of the Commission shall be 
        allowed a per diem allowance for travel expenses, at rates 
        consistent with those authorized under subchapter I of chapter 
        57 of title 5, United States Code.
        (2) Gifts, bequests, devises.--The Commission may solicit, 
    accept, use, and dispose of gifts, bequests, or devises of money, 
    services, or real or personal property for the purpose of aiding or 
    facilitating the work of the Commission.
        (3) Federal advisory committee act.--The Commission shall not 
    be subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).
    (f) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate on the date that 
is 30 days after the date on which the final versions of the reports 
required under section (c)(1) are submitted.
    (g) Funding.--
        (1) In general.--The Commission shall be solely responsible for 
    acceptance of contributions for, and payment of the expenses of, 
    the Commission.
        (2) Prohibition.--No Federal funds may be obligated to carry 
    out this section.
SEC. 3057. CAPE HATTERAS NATIONAL SEASHORE RECREATIONAL AREA.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Final rule.--The term ``Final Rule'' means the final rule 
    entitled ``Special Regulations, Areas of the National Park System, 
    Cape Hatteras National Seashore--Off-Road Vehicle Management'' (77 
    Fed. Reg. 3123 (January 23, 2012)).
        (2) National seashore.--The term ``National Seashore'' means 
    the Cape Hatteras National Seashore Recreational Area.
        (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of North 
    Carolina.
    (b) Review and Adjustment of Wildlife Protection Buffers.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall review and modify 
    wildlife buffers in the National Seashore in accordance with this 
    subsection and any other applicable law.
        (2) Buffer modifications.--In modifying wildlife buffers under 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary shall, using adaptive management 
    practices--
            (A) ensure that the buffers are of the shortest duration 
        and cover the smallest area necessary to protect a species, as 
        determined in accordance with peer-reviewed scientific data; 
        and
            (B) designate pedestrian and vehicle corridors around areas 
        of the National Seashore closed because of wildlife buffers, to 
        allow access to areas that are open.
        (3) Coordination with state.--The Secretary, after coordinating 
    with the State, shall determine appropriate buffer protections for 
    species that are not listed under the Endangered Species Act of 
    1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.), but that are identified for 
    protection under State law.
    (c) Modifications to Final Rule.--The Secretary shall undertake a 
public process to consider, consistent with management requirements at 
the National Seashore, the following changes to the Final Rule:
        (1) Opening beaches at the National Seashore that are closed to 
    night driving restrictions, by opening beach segments each morning 
    on a rolling basis as daily management reviews are completed.
        (2) Extending seasonal off-road vehicle routes for additional 
    periods in the Fall and Spring if off-road vehicle use would not 
    create resource management problems at the National Seashore.
        (3) Modifying the size and location of vehicle-free areas.
    (d) Construction of New Vehicle Access Points.--The Secretary shall 
construct new vehicle access points and roads at the National 
Seashore--
        (1) as expeditiously as practicable; and
        (2) in accordance with applicable management plans for the 
    National Seashore.
    (e) Report.--The Secretary shall report to Congress within 1 year 
after the date of enactment of this Act on measures taken to implement 
this section.

                 Subtitle E--Wilderness and Withdrawals

SEC. 3060. ALPINE LAKES WILDERNESS ADDITIONS AND PRATT AND MIDDLE FORK 
SNOQUALMIE RIVERS PROTECTION.
    (a) Expansion of Alpine Lakes Wilderness.--
        (1) In general.--There is designated as wilderness and as a 
    component of the National Wilderness Preservation System certain 
    Federal land in the Mount Baker-Snoqualmie National Forest in the 
    State of Washington comprising approximately 22,173 acres that is 
    within the Proposed Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions Boundary, as 
    generally depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed Alpine Lakes 
    Wilderness Additions'' and dated December 3, 2009, which is 
    incorporated in and shall be considered to be a part of the Alpine 
    Lakes Wilderness.
        (2) Administration.--
            (A) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the land 
        designated as wilderness by paragraph (1) shall be administered 
        by the Secretary of Agriculture (referred to in this section as 
        the ``Secretary''), in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that any reference in that Act to 
        the effective date of that Act shall be considered to be a 
        reference to the date of enactment of this Act.
            (B) Map and description.--
                (i) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date 
            of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall file a map 
            and a legal description of the land designated as 
            wilderness by paragraph (1) with--

                    (I) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (II) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate.

                (ii) Force of law.--A map and legal description filed 
            under clause (i) shall have the same force and effect as if 
            included in this section, except that the Secretary may 
            correct minor errors in the map and legal description.
                (iii) Public availability.--The map and legal 
            description filed under clause (i) shall be filed and made 
            available for public inspection in the appropriate office 
            of the Forest Service.
        (3) Incorporation of acquired land and interests in land.--Any 
    land or interests in land within the Proposed Alpine Lakes 
    Wilderness Additions Boundary, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled ``Proposed Alpine Lakes Wilderness Additions'' and dated 
    December 3, 2009, that is acquired by the United States shall--
            (A) become part of the wilderness area; and
            (B) be managed in accordance with paragraph (2)(A).
    (b) Wild and Scenic River Designations.--
        (1) Designation.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
    Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by inserting after paragraph 
    (208), as added by section 3040(e), the following:
        ``(209) Middle fork snoqualmie, washington.--The 27.4-mile 
    segment from the headwaters of the Middle Fork Snoqualmie River 
    near La Bohn Gap in NE \1/4\ sec. 20, T. 24 N., R. 13 E., to the 
    northern boundary of sec. 11, T. 23 N., R. 9 E., to be administered 
    by the Secretary of Agriculture in the following classifications:
            ``(A) The approximately 6.4-mile segment from the 
        headwaters of the Middle Fork Snoqualmie River near La Bohn Gap 
        in NE \1/4\ sec. 20, T. 24 N., R. 13 E., to the west section 
        line of sec. 3, T. 23 N., R. 12 E., as a wild river.
            ``(B) The approximately 21-mile segment from the west 
        section line of sec. 3, T. 23 N., R. 12 E., to the northern 
        boundary of sec. 11, T. 23 N., R. 9 E., as a scenic river.
        ``(210) Pratt river, washington.--The entirety of the Pratt 
    River in the State of Washington, located in the Mount Baker-
    Snoqualmie National Forest, to be administered by the Secretary of 
    Agriculture as a wild river.''.
        (2) No condemnation.--No land or interest in land within the 
    boundary of the river segment designated by paragraph (209) of 
    section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) 
    may be acquired by condemnation.
        (3) Adjacent management.--
            (A) In general.--Nothing in paragraph (209) of section 3(a) 
        of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) creates a 
        protective perimeter or buffer zone outside the designated 
        boundary of the river segment designated by that paragraph.
            (B) Outside activities.--The fact that an activity or use 
        can be seen or heard within the boundary of the river segment 
        designated by paragraph (209) of section 3(a) of the Wild and 
        Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) shall not preclude the 
        activity or use outside the boundary of the river segment.
SEC. 3061. COLUMBINE-HONDO WILDERNESS.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Red river conveyance map.--The term ``Red River Conveyance 
    Map'' means the map entitled ``Town of Red River Town Site Act 
    Proposal'' and dated April 19, 2012.
        (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    Agriculture.
        (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of New Mexico.
        (4) Town.--The term ``Town'' means the town of Red River, New 
    Mexico.
        (5) Village.--The term ``Village'' means the village of Taos 
    Ski Valley, New Mexico.
        (6) Wilderness.--The term ``Wilderness'' means the Columbine-
    Hondo Wilderness designated by subsection (b)(1)(A).
        (7) Wilderness map.--The term ``Wilderness Map'' means the map 
    entitled ``Columbine-Hondo, Wheeler Peak Wilderness'' and dated 
    April 25, 2012.
    (b) Addition to the National Wilderness Preservation System.--
        (1) Designation of the columbine-hondo wilderness.--
            (A) In general.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the approximately 45,000 acres of land in 
        the Carson National Forest in the State, as generally depicted 
        on the Wilderness Map, is designated as wilderness and as a 
        component of the National Wilderness Preservation System, which 
        shall be known as the ``Columbine-Hondo Wilderness''.
            (B) Management.--
                (i) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
            Wilderness shall be administered by the Secretary in 
            accordance with this section and the Wilderness Act (16 
            U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that any reference in that Act 
            to the effective date of that Act shall be considered to be 
            a reference to the date of enactment of this Act.
                (ii) Adjacent management.--

                    (I) In general.--Congress does not intend for the 
                designation of the Wilderness to create a protective 
                perimeter or buffer zone around the Wilderness.
                    (II) Nonwilderness activities.--The fact that 
                nonwilderness activities or uses can be seen or heard 
                from areas within the Wilderness shall not preclude the 
                conduct of the activities or uses outside the boundary 
                of the Wilderness.

            (C) Incorporation of acquired land and interests in land.--
        Any land or interest in land that is within the boundary of the 
        Wilderness that is acquired by the United States shall--
                (i) become part of the Wilderness; and
                (ii) be managed in accordance with--

                    (I) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.);
                    (II) this subsection; and
                    (III) any other applicable laws.

            (D) Grazing.--Grazing of livestock in the Wilderness, where 
        established before the date of enactment of this Act, shall be 
        allowed to continue in accordance with--
                (i) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
            1133(d)(4)); and
                (ii) the guidelines set forth in the report of the 
            Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
            Representatives accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress 
            (H. Rept. 96-617).
            (E) Columbine-hondo wilderness study area.--
                (i) Finding.--Congress finds that, for purposes of 
            section 103(a)(2) of Public Law 96-550 (16 U.S.C. 1132 
            note; 94 Stat. 3223), any Federal land in the Columbine-
            Hondo Wilderness Study Area administered by the Forest 
            Service that is not designated as wilderness by 
            subparagraph (A) has been adequately reviewed for 
            wilderness designation.
                (ii) Applicability.--The Federal land described in 
            clause (i) is no longer subject to subsections (a)(2) and 
            (b) of section 103 of Public Law 96-550 (16 U.S.C. 1132 
            note; 94 Stat. 3223).
            (F) Maps and legal descriptions.--
                (i) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date 
            of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare maps 
            and legal descriptions of the Wilderness.
                (ii) Force of law.--The maps and legal descriptions 
            prepared under clause (i) shall have the same force and 
            effect as if included in this section, except that the 
            Secretary may correct errors in the maps and legal 
            descriptions.
                (iii) Public availability.--The maps and legal 
            descriptions prepared under clause (i) shall be on file and 
            available for public inspection in the appropriate offices 
            of the Forest Service.
            (G) Fish and wildlife.--
                (i) In general.--Nothing in this section affects the 
            jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and wildlife 
            located on public land in the State, except that the 
            Secretary may designate areas in which, and establish 
            periods during which, for reasons of public safety, 
            administration, or compliance with applicable laws, no 
            hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in the 
            Wilderness.
                (ii) Consultation.--Except in emergencies, the 
            Secretary shall consult with the appropriate State agency 
            and notify the public before taking any action under clause 
            (i).
            (H) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        Federal land described in subparagraphs (A) and (E)(i) and any 
        land or interest in land that is acquired by the United States 
        in the Wilderness after the date of enactment of this Act is 
        withdrawn from--
                (i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public 
            land laws;
                (ii) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; 
            and
                (iii) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral 
            materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
        (2) Wheeler peak wilderness boundary modification.--
            (A) In general.--The boundary of the Wheeler Peak 
        Wilderness in the State is modified as generally depicted in 
        the Wilderness Map.
            (B) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, any 
        Federal land added to or excluded from the boundary of the 
        Wheeler Peak Wilderness under subparagraph (A) is withdrawn 
        from--
                (i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public 
            land laws;
                (ii) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; 
            and
                (iii) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral 
            materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
    (c) Land Conveyances and Sales.--
        (1) Town of red river land conveyance.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to the provisions of this 
        paragraph, the Secretary shall convey to the Town, without 
        consideration and by quitclaim deed, all right, title, and 
        interest of the United States in and to the one or more parcels 
        of Federal land described in subparagraph (B) for which the 
        Town submits a request to the Secretary by the date that is not 
        later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (B) Description of land.--The parcels of Federal land 
        referred to in subparagraph (A) are the parcels of National 
        Forest System land (including any improvements to the land) in 
        Taos County, New Mexico, that are identified as ``Parcel 1'', 
        ``Parcel 2'', ``Parcel 3'', and ``Parcel 4'' on the Red River 
        Conveyance Map.
            (C) Conditions.--The conveyance under subparagraph (A) 
        shall be subject to--
                (i) valid existing rights;
                (ii) public rights-of-way through ``Parcel 1'', 
            ``Parcel 3'', and ``Parcel 4'';
                (iii) an administrative right-of-way through ``Parcel 
            2'' reserved to the United States; and
                (iv) such additional terms and conditions as the 
            Secretary may require.
            (D) Use of land.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
        subparagraph (A), the Town shall use--
                (i) ``Parcel 1'' for a wastewater treatment plant;
                (ii) ``Parcel 2'' for a cemetery;
                (iii) ``Parcel 3'' for a public park; and
                (iv) ``Parcel 4'' for a public road.
            (E) Reversion.--In the quitclaim deed to the Town under 
        subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall provide that any parcel 
        of Federal land conveyed to the Town under subparagraph (A) 
        shall revert to the Secretary, at the election of the 
        Secretary, if the parcel of Federal land is used for a purpose 
        other than the purpose for which the parcel was conveyed, as 
        required under subparagraph (D).
            (F) Survey; administrative costs.--
                (i) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of 
            the National Forest System land conveyed under subparagraph 
            (A) shall be determined by a survey approved by the 
            Secretary.
                (ii) Costs.--The Town shall pay the reasonable survey 
            and other administrative costs associated with the 
            conveyance.
        (2) Village of taos ski valley land conveyance.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to the provisions of this 
        paragraph, the Secretary shall convey to the Village, without 
        consideration and by quitclaim deed, all right, title, and 
        interest of the United States in and to the parcel of Federal 
        land described in subparagraph (B) for which the Village 
        submits a request to the Secretary by the date that is not 
        later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (B) Description of land.--The parcel of Federal land 
        referred to in subparagraph (A) is the parcel comprising 
        approximately 4.6 acres of National Forest System land 
        (including any improvements to the land) in Taos County 
        generally depicted as ``Parcel 1'' on the map entitled 
        ``Village of Taos Ski Valley Town Site Act Proposal'' and dated 
        April 19, 2012.
            (C) Conditions.--The conveyance under subparagraph (A) 
        shall be subject to--
                (i) valid existing rights;
                (ii) an administrative right-of-way through the parcel 
            of Federal land described in subparagraph (B) reserved to 
            the United States; and
                (iii) such additional terms and conditions as the 
            Secretary may require.
            (D) Use of land.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
        subparagraph (A), the Village shall use the parcel of Federal 
        land described in subparagraph (B) for a wastewater treatment 
        plant.
            (E) Reversion.--In the quitclaim deed to the Village, the 
        Secretary shall provide that the parcel of Federal land 
        conveyed to the Village under subparagraph (A) shall revert to 
        the Secretary, at the election of the Secretary, if the parcel 
        of Federal land is used for a purpose other than the purpose 
        for which the parcel was conveyed, as described in subparagraph 
        (D).
            (F) Survey; administrative costs.--
                (i) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of 
            the National Forest System land conveyed under subparagraph 
            (A) shall be determined by a survey approved by the 
            Secretary.
                (ii) Costs.--The Village shall pay the reasonable 
            survey and other administrative costs associated with the 
            conveyance.
        (3) Authorization of sale of certain national forest system 
    land.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to the provisions of this 
        paragraph and in exchange for consideration in an amount that 
        is equal to the fair market value of the applicable parcel of 
        National Forest System land, the Secretary may convey--
                (i) to the holder of the permit numbered ``QUE302101'' 
            for use of the parcel, the parcel of National Forest System 
            land comprising approximately 0.2 acres that is generally 
            depicted as ``Parcel 5'' on the Red River Conveyance Map; 
            and
                (ii) to the owner of the private property adjacent to 
            the parcel, the parcel of National Forest System land 
            comprising approximately 0.1 acres that is generally 
            depicted as ``Parcel 6'' on the Red River Conveyance Map.
            (B) Disposition of proceeds.--Any amounts received by the 
        Secretary as consideration for a conveyance under subparagraph 
        (A) shall be--
                (i) deposited in the fund established under Public Law 
            90-171 (commonly known as the ``Sisk Act'') (16 U.S.C. 
            484a); and
                (ii) available to the Secretary, without further 
            appropriation and until expended, for the acquisition of 
            land or interests in land in Region 3 of the Forest 
            Service.
            (C) Conditions.--The conveyance under subparagraph (A) 
        shall be subject to--
                (i) valid existing rights; and
                (ii) such additional terms and conditions as the 
            Secretary may require.
            (D) Survey; administrative costs.--
                (i) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of 
            the National Forest System land conveyed under subparagraph 
            (A) shall be determined by a survey approved by the 
            Secretary.
                (ii) Costs.--The reasonable survey and other 
            administrative costs associated with the conveyance shall 
            be paid by the holder of the permit or the owner of the 
            private property, as applicable.
SEC. 3062. HERMOSA CREEK WATERSHED PROTECTION.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of Durango, 
    Colorado.
        (2) County.--The term ``County'' means La Plata County, 
    Colorado.
        (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    Agriculture.
        (4) Special management area.--The term ``Special Management 
    Area'' means the Hermosa Creek Special Management Area designated 
    by subsection (b)(1).
        (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Colorado.
    (b) Designation of Hermosa Creek Special Management Area.--
        (1) Designation.--Subject to valid existing rights, certain 
    Federal land in the San Juan National Forest comprising 
    approximately 70,650 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
    entitled ``Proposed Hermosa Creek Special Management Area and 
    Proposed Hermosa Creek Wilderness Area'' and dated November 12, 
    2014, is designated as the ``Hermosa Creek Special Management 
    Area''.
        (2) Purpose.--The purpose of the Special Management Area is to 
    conserve and protect for the benefit of present and future 
    generations the watershed, geological, cultural, natural, 
    scientific, recreational, wildlife, riparian, historical, 
    educational, and scenic resources of the Special Management Area.
        (3) Administration.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the Special 
        Management Area--
                (i) in a manner that conserves, protects, and manages 
            the resources of the Special Management Area described in 
            paragraph (2); and
                (ii) in accordance with--

                    (I) the National Forest Management Act of 1976 (16 
                U.S.C. 1600 et seq.);
                    (II) this Act; and
                    (III) any other applicable laws.

            (B) Uses.--
                (i) In general.--The Secretary shall allow only such 
            uses of the Special Management Area as the Secretary 
            determines would further the purposes described in 
            paragraph (2).
                (ii) Motorized and mechanized vehicles.--

                    (I) In general.--Except as provided in subclause 
                (II) and as needed for administrative purposes or to 
                respond to an emergency, the use of motorized or 
                mechanized vehicles in the Special Management Area 
                shall be permitted only on roads and trails designated 
                by the Secretary for use by those vehicles.
                    (II) Oversnow vehicles.--The Secretary shall 
                authorize the use of snowmobiles and other oversnow 
                vehicles within the Special Management Area--

                        (aa) when there exists adequate snow coverage; 
                    and
                        (bb) subject to such terms and conditions as 
                    the Secretary may require.
                (iii) Grazing.--The Secretary shall permit grazing 
            within the Special Management Area, if established before 
            the date of enactment of this Act, subject to all 
            applicable laws (including regulations) and Executive 
            orders.
                (iv) Prohibited activities.--Within the area of the 
            Special Management Area identified as ``East Hermosa Area'' 
            on the map entitled ``Proposed Hermosa Creek Special 
            Management Area and Proposed Hermosa Creek Wilderness 
            Area'' and dated November 12, 2014, the following 
            activities shall be prohibited:

                    (I) New permanent or temporary road construction or 
                the renovation of existing nonsystem roads, except as 
                allowed under the final rule entitled ``Special Areas; 
                Roadless Area Conservation; Applicability to the 
                National Forests in Colorado'' (77 Fed. Reg. 39576 
                (July 3, 2012)).
                    (II) Projects undertaken for the purpose of 
                harvesting commercial timber (other than activities 
                relating to the harvest of merchantable products that 
                are byproducts of activities conducted for ecological 
                restoration or to further the purposes described in 
                this section).

        (4) State and federal water management.--Nothing in this 
    subsection affects the potential for development, operation, or 
    maintenance of a water storage reservoir at the site in the Special 
    Management Area that is identified in--
            (A) pages 17 through 20 of the Statewide Water Supply 
        Initiative studies prepared by the Colorado Water Conservation 
        Board and issued by the State in November 2004; and
            (B) page 27 of the Colorado Dam Site Inventory prepared by 
        the Colorado Water Conservation Board and dated August 1996.
        (5) Withdrawal.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to valid rights in existence on 
        the date of enactment of this Act and except as provided in 
        subparagraph (B), the Federal land within the Special 
        Management Area is withdrawn from--
                (i) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal 
            under the public land laws;
                (ii) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; 
            and
                (iii) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral 
            materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
            (B) Exception.--The withdrawal under subparagraph (A) shall 
        not apply to the areas identified as parcels A and B on the map 
        entitled ``Proposed Hermosa Creek Special Management Area and 
        Proposed Hermosa Creek Wilderness Area'' and dated November 12, 
        2014.
        (6) Winter skiing and related winter activities.--Nothing in 
    this subsection alters or limits--
            (A) a permit held by a ski area;
            (B) the implementation of the activities governed by a ski 
        area permit; or
            (C) the authority of the Secretary to modify or expand an 
        existing ski area permit.
        (7) Vegetation management.--Nothing in this subsection prevents 
    the Secretary from conducting vegetation management projects within 
    the Special Management Area--
            (A) subject to--
                (i) such reasonable regulations, policies, and 
            practices as the Secretary determines to be appropriate; 
            and
                (ii) all applicable laws (including regulations); and
            (B) in a manner consistent with--
                (i) the purposes described in paragraph (2); and
                (ii) this subsection.
        (8) Wildfire, insect, and disease management.--In accordance 
    with this subsection, the Secretary may--
            (A) carry out any measures that the Secretary determines to 
        be necessary to manage wildland fire and treat hazardous fuels, 
        insects, and diseases in the Special Management Area; and
            (B) coordinate those measures with the appropriate State or 
        local agency, as the Secretary determines to be necessary.
        (9) Management plan.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a management 
    plan for the long-term protection and management of the Special 
    Management Area that--
            (A) takes into account public input; and
            (B) provides for recreational opportunities to occur within 
        the Special Management Area, including skiing, biking, hiking, 
        fishing, hunting, horseback riding, snowmobiling, motorcycle 
        riding, off-highway vehicle use, snowshoeing, and camping.
        (10) Trail and open area snowmobile usage.--Nothing in this 
    subsection affects the use or status of trails authorized for 
    motorized or mechanized vehicle or open area snowmobile use on the 
    date of enactment of this Act.
        (11) State water rights.--Nothing in this subsection affects 
    access to, use of, or allocation of any absolute or conditional 
    water right that is--
            (A) decreed under the laws of the State; and
            (B) in existence on the date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Hermosa Creek Wilderness.--
        (1) Designation of wilderness.--Section 2(a) of the Colorado 
    Wilderness Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 107 Stat. 756; 114 
    Stat. 1955; 116 Stat. 1055) is amended by adding at the end the 
    following:
        ``(22) Certain land within the San Juan National Forest that 
    comprises approximately 37,236 acres, as generally depicted on the 
    map entitled `Proposed Hermosa Creek Special Management Area and 
    Proposed Hermosa Creek Wilderness Area' and dated November 12, 
    2014, which shall be known as the `Hermosa Creek Wilderness'.''.
        (2) Effective date.--Any reference contained in the Wilderness 
    Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) to the effective date of that Act 
    shall be considered to be a reference to the date of enactment of 
    this Act for purposes of administering the wilderness area 
    designated by section 2(a)(22) of the Colorado Wilderness Act of 
    1993 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 107 Stat. 756; 114 Stat. 1955; 116 Stat. 
    1055) (as added by paragraph (1)).
        (3) Fire, insects, and diseases.--In accordance with section 
    4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), within the 
    wilderness areas designated by section 2(a)(22) of the Colorado 
    Wilderness Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; 107 Stat. 756; 114 
    Stat. 1955; 116 Stat. 1055) (as added by paragraph (1)), the 
    Secretary may carry out any measure that the Secretary determines 
    to be necessary to control fire, insects, and diseases, subject to 
    such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines to be 
    appropriate.
    (d) Durango Area Mineral Withdrawal.--
        (1) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the land and 
    mineral interests described in paragraph (2) are withdrawn from all 
    forms of--
            (A) entry, appropriation, and disposal under the public 
        land laws;
            (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (C) disposition under all laws relating to mineral leasing, 
        geothermal leasing, or mineral materials.
        (2) Description of land and mineral interests.--The land and 
    mineral interests referred to in paragraph (1) are the Federal land 
    and mineral interests generally depicted within the areas 
    designated as ``Withdrawal Areas'' on the map entitled ``Perins 
    Peak & Animas City Mountain, Horse Gulch and Lake Nighthorse 
    Mineral Withdrawal'' and dated April 5, 2013.
        (3) Public purpose conveyance.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), 
    the Secretary of the Interior may convey any portion of the land 
    described in paragraph (2) that is administered by the Bureau of 
    Land Management to the City, the County, or the State--
            (A) pursuant to the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as 
        the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869 et 
        seq.); or
            (B) by exchange in accordance with applicable laws 
        (including regulations).
    (e) Conveyance of Bureau of Land Management Land to County.--
        (1) In general.--On the expiration of the permit numbered COC 
    64651 (09) and dated February 24, 2009, on request and agreement of 
    the County, the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to the 
    County, without consideration and subject to valid existing rights, 
    all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
    land described in paragraph (2), subject to--
            (A) paragraph (3);
            (B) the condition that the County shall pay all 
        administrative and other costs associated with the conveyance; 
        and
            (C) such other terms and conditions as the Secretary of the 
        Interior determines to be necessary.
        (2) Description of land.--The land referred to in paragraph (1) 
    consists of approximately 82 acres of land managed by the Bureau of 
    Land Management, Tres Rios District, Colorado, as generally 
    depicted on the map entitled ``La Plata County Grandview 
    Conveyance'' and dated May 5, 2014.
        (3) Use of conveyed land.--The Federal land conveyed pursuant 
    to this subsection may be used by the County for any public 
    purpose, in accordance with the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly 
    known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869 
    et seq.).
        (4) Reversion.--If the County ceases to use a parcel of the 
    Federal land conveyed pursuant to this subsection in accordance 
    with paragraph (1), title to the parcel shall revert to the 
    Secretary of the Interior, at the option of the Secretary of the 
    Interior.
    (f) Molas Pass Recreation Area; Wilderness Study Area Release; 
Wilderness Study Area Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction.--
        (1) Molas pass recreation area.--
            (A) Designation.--The approximately 461 acres of land in 
        San Juan County, Colorado, that is generally depicted as 
        ``Molas Pass Recreation Area'' on the map entitled ``Molas Pass 
        Recreation Area and Molas Pass Wilderness Study Area'' and 
        dated November 13, 2014, is designated as the ``Molas Pass 
        Recreation Area''.
            (B) Use of snowmobiles.--The use of snowmobiles shall be 
        authorized in the Molas Pass Recreation Area--
                (i) during periods of adequate snow coverage;
                (ii) in accordance with the Federal Land Policy and 
            Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and other 
            applicable laws (including regulations);
                (iii) on designated trails for winter motorized travel 
            and grooming;
                (iv) in designated areas for open area motorized 
            travel; and
                (v) subject to such terms and conditions as the 
            Secretary may require.
            (C) Other recreational opportunities.--In addition to the 
        uses authorized under subparagraph (B), the Secretary may 
        authorize other recreational uses in the Molas Pass Recreation 
        Area.
        (2) Molas pass wilderness study area.--
            (A) Transfer of administrative jurisdiction.--
        Administrative jurisdiction over the Federal land generally 
        depicted as ``Molas Pass Wilderness Study Area'' on the map 
        entitled ``Molas Pass Recreation Area and Molas Pass Wilderness 
        Study Area'', and dated November 13, 2014, is transferred from 
        the Bureau of Land Management to the Forest Service.
            (B) Administration.--The Federal land described in 
        subparagraph (A) shall--
                (i) be known as the ``Molas Pass Wilderness Study 
            Area''; and
                (ii) be administered by the Secretary, so as to 
            maintain the wilderness character and potential of the 
            Federal land for inclusion in the National Wilderness 
            Preservation System.
        (3) Release.--
            (A) Finding.--Congress finds that the land described in 
        subparagraph (C) has been adequately studied for wilderness 
        designation under section 603 of the Federal Land Policy and 
        Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782).
            (B) Release.--Effective beginning on the date of enactment 
        of this Act, the land described in subparagraph (C)--
                (i) shall not be subject to section 603(c) of the 
            Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
            1782(c));
                (ii) shall be managed in accordance with land 
            management plans adopted under section 202 of that Act (43 
            U.S.C. 1712); and
                (iii) shall not be subject to Secretarial Order 3310 
            issued on December 22, 2010.
            (C) Description of land.--The land referred to in 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B) is the approximately 461 acres 
        located in the West Needles Contiguous Wilderness Study Area of 
        San Juan County, Colorado, that is generally depicted as 
        ``Molas Pass Recreation Area'' on the map entitled ``Molas Pass 
        Recreation Area and Molas Pass Wilderness Study Area'' and 
        dated November 13, 2014.
    (g) General Provisions.--
        (1) Fish and wildlife.--Nothing in this section affects the 
    jurisdiction or responsibility of the State with regard to fish and 
    wildlife in the State.
        (2) Maps and legal descriptions.--
            (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary or the Secretary of the 
        Interior, as appropriate, shall prepare maps and legal 
        descriptions of--
                (i) the Special Management Area;
                (ii) the wilderness area designated by the amendment 
            made by subsection (c)(1);
                (iii) the withdrawal pursuant to subsection (d);
                (iv) the conveyance pursuant to subsection (e);
                (v) the recreation area designated by subsection 
            (f)(1); and
                (vi) the wilderness study area designated by subsection 
            (f)(2)(B)(i).
            (B) Force of law.--The maps and legal descriptions prepared 
        under subparagraph (A) shall have the same force and effect as 
        if included in this section, except that the Secretary 
        concerned may correct any clerical or typographical errors in 
        the maps and legal descriptions.
            (C) Public availability.--The maps and legal descriptions 
        prepared under subparagraph (A) shall be on file and available 
        for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service and the Bureau of Land Management.
        (3) Adjacent management.--
            (A) In general.--Nothing in this section establishes a 
        protective perimeter or buffer zone around--
                (i) the Special Management Area;
                (ii) the wilderness area designated by an amendment 
            made by subsection (c)(1); or
                (iii) the wilderness study area designated by 
            subsection (f)(2)(B)(i).
            (B) Nonwilderness activities.--The fact that a 
        nonwilderness activity or use can be seen or heard from areas 
        within the wilderness area designated by an amendment made by 
        subsection (c)(1) or the wilderness study area designated by 
        subsection (f)(2)(B)(i) shall not preclude the conduct of the 
        activity or use outside the boundary of the wilderness area or 
        wilderness study area.
        (4) Military overflights.--Nothing in this section restricts or 
    precludes--
            (A) any low-level overflight of military aircraft over an 
        area designated as a wilderness area under an amendment made by 
        this section, including military overflights that can be seen, 
        heard, or detected within the wilderness area;
            (B) flight testing or evaluation; or
            (C) the designation or establishment of--
                (i) new units of special use airspace; or
                (ii) any military flight training route over a 
            wilderness area described in subparagraph (A).
SEC. 3063. NORTH FORK FEDERAL LANDS WITHDRAWAL AREA.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Eligible federal land.--The term ``eligible Federal land'' 
    means--
            (A) any federally owned land or interest in land depicted 
        on the Map as within the North Fork Federal Lands Withdrawal 
        Area; or
            (B) any land or interest in land located within the North 
        Fork Federal Lands Withdrawal Area that is acquired by the 
        Federal Government after the date of enactment of this Act.
        (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the Bureau of Land Management 
    map entitled ``North Fork Federal Lands Withdrawal Area'' and dated 
    June 9, 2010.
    (b) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the eligible 
Federal land is withdrawn from--
        (1) all forms of location, entry, and patent under the mining 
    laws; and
        (2) disposition under all laws relating to mineral leasing and 
    geothermal leasing.
    (c) Availability of Map.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Map shall be made available to the public at 
each appropriate office of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (d) Effect of Section.--Nothing in this section prohibits the 
Secretary of the Interior from taking any action necessary to complete 
any requirement under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) or the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
1531 et seq.) required for permitting surface-disturbing activity to 
occur on any lease issued before the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3064. PINE FOREST RANGE WILDERNESS.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Humboldt County, Nevada.
        (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Proposed 
    Pine Forest Wilderness Area'' and dated October 28, 2013.
        (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.
        (5) Wilderness.--The term ``Wilderness'' means the Pine Forest 
    Range Wilderness designated by section (b)(1).
    (b) Addition to National Wilderness Preservation System.--
        (1) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the 
    Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the approximately 26,000 
    acres of Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management, as 
    generally depicted on the Map, is designated as wilderness and as a 
    component of the National Wilderness Preservation System, to be 
    known as the ``Pine Forest Range Wilderness''.
        (2) Boundary.--
            (A) Road access.--The boundary of any portion of the 
        Wilderness that is bordered by a road shall be 100 feet from 
        the edge of the road.
            (B) Road adjustments.--The Secretary shall--
                (i) reroute the road running through Long Meadow to the 
            west to remove the road from the riparian area;
                (ii) reroute the road currently running through Rodeo 
            Flat/Corral Meadow to the east to remove the road from the 
            riparian area;
                (iii) close, except for administrative use, the road 
            along Lower Alder Creek south of Bureau of Land Management 
            road #2083; and
                (iv)(I) leave open the Coke Creek Road to Little Onion 
            Basin; but
                (II) close spur roads connecting to the roads described 
            in subclause (I).
            (C) Reservoir access.--The boundary of the Wilderness shall 
        be 160 feet downstream from the dam at Little Onion Reservoir.
        (3) Map and legal description.--
            (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare a map and 
        legal description of the Wilderness.
            (B) Effect.--The map and legal description prepared under 
        subparagraph (A) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this section, except that the Secretary may correct 
        clerical and typographical errors in the map or legal 
        description.
            (C) Availability.--The map and legal description prepared 
        under subparagraph (A) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of 
        Land Management.
        (4) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
    Wilderness is withdrawn from--
            (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (C) disposition under all laws relating to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
    (c) Administration.--
        (1) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
    Wilderness shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance 
    with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that--
            (A) any reference in the Wilderness Act to the effective 
        date of that Act shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        date of enactment of this Act; and
            (B) any reference in the Wilderness Act to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        Secretary.
        (2) Livestock.--The grazing of livestock in the Wilderness, if 
    established before the date of enactment of this Act, shall be 
    allowed to continue, subject to such reasonable regulations, 
    policies, and practices as the Secretary considers to be necessary 
    in accordance with--
            (A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(4)); and
            (B) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the report of 
        the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress 
        (House Report 101-405).
        (3) Adjacent management.--
            (A) In general.--Congress does not intend for the 
        designation of the Wilderness to create a protective perimeter 
        or buffer zone around the Wilderness.
            (B) Nonwilderness activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
        activities or uses can be seen, heard, or detected from areas 
        within the Wilderness shall not limit or preclude the conduct 
        of the activities or uses outside the boundary of the 
        Wilderness.
        (4) Military overflights.--Nothing in this section restricts or 
    precludes--
            (A) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        Wilderness, including military overflights that can be seen, 
        heard, or detected within the Wilderness;
            (B) flight testing and evaluation; or
            (C) the designation or creation of new units of special use 
        airspace, or the establishment of military flight training 
        routes, over the Wilderness.
        (5) Wildfire, insect, and disease management.--In accordance 
    with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), 
    the Secretary may take such measures in the Wilderness as are 
    necessary for the control of fire, insects, and diseases 
    (including, as the Secretary determines to be appropriate, the 
    coordination of the activities with a State or local agency).
        (6) Wildfire management operations.--Nothing in this section 
    precludes a Federal, State, or local agency from conducting 
    wildfire management operations (including operations using aircraft 
    or mechanized equipment).
        (7) Water rights.--
            (A) Purpose.--The purpose of this paragraph is to protect 
        the wilderness values of the land designated as wilderness by 
        this section by means other than a federally reserved water 
        right.
            (B) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this section--
                (i) constitutes an express or implied reservation by 
            the United States of any water or water rights with respect 
            to the Wilderness;
                (ii) affects any water rights in the State (including 
            any water rights held by the United States) in existence on 
            the date of enactment of this Act;
                (iii) establishes a precedent with regard to any future 
            wilderness designations;
                (iv) affects the interpretation of, or any designation 
            made under, any other Act; or
                (v) limits, alters, modifies, or amends any interstate 
            compact or equitable apportionment decree that apportions 
            water among and between the State and other States.
            (C) Nevada water law.--The Secretary shall follow the 
        procedural and substantive requirements of State law in order 
        to obtain and hold any water rights not in existence on the 
        date of enactment of this Act with respect to the Wilderness.
            (D) New projects.--
                (i) Definition of water resource facility.--

                    (I) In general.--In this subparagraph, the term 
                ``water resource facility'' means irrigation and 
                pumping facilities, reservoirs, water conservation 
                works, aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, wells, 
                hydropower projects, transmission and other ancillary 
                facilities, and other water diversion, storage, and 
                carriage structures.
                    (II) Exclusion.--In this subparagraph, the term 
                ``water resource facility'' does not include wildlife 
                guzzlers.

                (ii) Restriction on new water resource facilities.--
            Except as otherwise provided in this section, on or after 
            the date of enactment of this Act, neither the President 
            nor any other officer, employee, or agent of the United 
            States shall fund, assist, authorize, or issue a license or 
            permit for the development of any new water resource 
            facility within a wilderness area, any portion of which is 
            located in the County.
    (d) Release of Wilderness Study Areas.--
        (1) Finding.--Congress finds that, for the purposes of section 
    603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
    U.S.C. 1782(c)), the land described in paragraph (3) has been 
    adequately studied for wilderness designation.
        (2) Release.--Any public land described in paragraph (3) that 
    is not designated as wilderness by this section--
            (A) is no longer subject to--
                (i) section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and 
            Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); or
                (ii) Secretarial Order No. 3310 issued by the Secretary 
            on December 22, 2010; and
            (B) shall be managed in accordance with the applicable land 
        use plans adopted under section 202 of the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712).
        (3) Description of land.--The land referred to in paragraphs 
    (1) and (2) consists of the portions of the Blue Lakes and Alder 
    Creek wilderness study areas not designated as wilderness by 
    subsection (b)(1), including the approximately 990 acres in the 
    following areas:
            (A) Lower Alder Creek Basin.
            (B) Little Onion Basin.
            (C) Lands east of Knott Creek Reservoir.
            (D) Portions of Corral Meadow and the Blue Lakes Trailhead.
    (e) Wildlife Management.--
        (1) In general.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
    Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this section 
    affects or diminishes the jurisdiction of the State with respect to 
    fish and wildlife management, including the regulation of hunting, 
    fishing, and trapping, in the Wilderness.
        (2) Management activities.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
    principles of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the 
    Secretary may conduct any management activities in the Wilderness 
    that are necessary to maintain or restore fish and wildlife 
    populations and the habitats to support the populations, if the 
    activities are carried out--
            (A) consistent with relevant wilderness management plans; 
        and
            (B) in accordance with--
                (i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); and
                (ii) the guidelines set forth in Appendix B of the 
            report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of 
            the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 
            101st Congress (House Report 101-405), including the 
            occasional and temporary use of motorized vehicles if the 
            use, as determined by the Secretary, would promote healthy, 
            viable, and more naturally distributed wildlife populations 
            that would enhance wilderness values with the minimal 
            impact necessary to reasonably accomplish those tasks.
        (3) Existing activities.--Consistent with section 4(d)(1) of 
    the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and in accordance with 
    the guidelines set forth in Appendix B of the report of the 
    Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress (House 
    Report 101-405), the State may continue to use aircraft, including 
    helicopters, to survey, capture, transplant, monitor, and provide 
    water for wildlife populations in the Wilderness.
        (4) Hunting, fishing, and trapping.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary may designate areas in 
        which, and establish periods during which, for reasons of 
        public safety, administration, or compliance with applicable 
        laws, no hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in the 
        Wilderness.
            (B) Consultation.--Except in emergencies, the Secretary 
        shall consult with the appropriate State agency and notify the 
        public before taking any action under subparagraph (A).
        (5) Agreement.--
            (A) In general.--The State, including a designee of the 
        State, may conduct wildlife management activities in the 
        Wilderness--
                (i) in accordance with the terms and conditions 
            specified in the agreement between the Secretary and the 
            State entitled ``Memorandum of Understanding between the 
            Bureau of Land Management and the Nevada Department of 
            Wildlife Supplement No. 9'' and signed November and 
            December 2003, including any amendments to the agreement 
            agreed to by the Secretary and the State; and
                (ii) subject to all applicable laws (including 
            regulations).
            (B) References; clark county.--For the purposes of this 
        paragraph, any reference to Clark County in the agreement 
        described in subparagraph (A)(i) shall be considered to be a 
        reference to the Wilderness.
    (f) Land Exchanges.--
        (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means Federal 
        land in the County that is identified for disposal by the 
        Secretary through the Winnemucca Resource Management Plan.
            (B) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        land identified on the Map as ``non-Federal lands for 
        exchange''.
        (2) Acquisition of land and interests in land.--Consistent with 
    applicable law and subject to paragraph (3), the Secretary may 
    exchange the Federal land for non-Federal land.
        (3) Conditions.--Each land exchange under paragraph (1) shall 
    be subject to--
            (A) the condition that the owner of the non-Federal land 
        pay not less than 50 percent of all costs relating to the land 
        exchange, including the costs of appraisals, surveys, and any 
        necessary environmental clearances; and
            (B) such additional terms and conditions as the Secretary 
        may require.
        (4) Incorporation of acquired land and interests in land.--Any 
    non-Federal land or interest in the non-Federal land within the 
    boundary of the Wilderness that is acquired by the United States 
    under this subsection after the date of enactment of this Act shall 
    be added to and administered as part of the Wilderness.
        (5) Deadline for completion of land exchange.--It is the intent 
    of Congress that the land exchanges under this subsection be 
    completed by not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of 
    this Act.
    (g) Native American Cultural and Religious Uses.--Nothing in this 
section alters or diminishes the treaty rights of any Indian tribe (as 
defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education 
Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b)).
SEC. 3065. ROCKY MOUNTAIN FRONT CONSERVATION MANAGEMENT AREA AND 
WILDERNESS ADDITIONS.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Conservation management area.--The term ``Conservation 
    Management Area'' means the Rocky Mountain Front Conservation 
    Management Area established by subsection (b)(1)(A).
        (2) Decommission.--The term ``decommission'' means--
            (A) to reestablish vegetation on a road; and
            (B) to restore any natural drainage, watershed function, or 
        other ecological processes that are disrupted or adversely 
        impacted by the road by removing or hydrologically 
        disconnecting the road prism.
        (3) District.--The term ``district'' means the Rocky Mountain 
    Ranger District of the Lewis and Clark National Forest.
        (4) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Rocky 
    Mountain Front Heritage Act'' and dated October 27, 2011.
        (5) Nonmotorized recreation trail.--The term ``nonmotorized 
    recreation trail'' means a trail designed for hiking, bicycling, or 
    equestrian use.
        (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means--
            (A) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Agriculture; and
            (B) with respect to land under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of the Interior.
        (7) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Montana.
    (b) Rocky Mountain Front Conservation Management Area.--
        (1) Establishment.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
        established the Rocky Mountain Front Conservation Management 
        Area in the State.
            (B) Area included.--The Conservation Management Area shall 
        consist of approximately 195,073 acres of Federal land managed 
        by the Forest Service and 13,087 acres of Federal land managed 
        by the Bureau of Land Management in the State, as generally 
        depicted on the map.
            (C) Incorporation of acquired land and interests.--Any land 
        or interest in land that is located in the Conservation 
        Management Area and is acquired by the United States from a 
        willing seller shall--
                (i) become part of the Conservation Management Area; 
            and
                (ii) be managed in accordance with--

                    (I) in the case of land managed by the Forest 
                Service--

                        (aa) the Act of March 1, 1911 (commonly known 
                    as the ``Weeks Law'') (16 U.S.C. 552 et seq.); and
                        (bb) any laws (including regulations) 
                    applicable to the National Forest System;

                    (II) in the case of land managed, by the Bureau of 
                Land Management, the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                    (III) this subsection; and
                    (IV) any other applicable law (including 
                regulations).

        (2) Purposes.--The purposes of the Conservation Management Area 
    are to conserve, protect, and enhance for the benefit and enjoyment 
    of present and future generations the recreational, scenic, 
    historical, cultural, fish, wildlife, roadless, and ecological 
    values of the Conservation Management Area.
        (3) Management.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the 
        Conservation Management Area--
                (i) in a manner that conserves, protects, and enhances 
            the resources of the Conservation Management Area; and
                (ii) in accordance with--

                    (I) the laws (including regulations) and rules 
                applicable to the National Forest System for land 
                managed by the Forest Service;
                    (II) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) for land managed by the 
                Bureau of Land Management;
                    (III) this subsection; and
                    (IV) any other applicable law (including 
                regulations).

            (B) Uses.--
                (i) In general.--The Secretary shall only allow such 
            uses of the Conservation Management Area that the Secretary 
            determines would further the purposes described in 
            paragraph (2).
                (ii) Motorized vehicles.--

                    (I) In general.--The use of motorized vehicles in 
                the Conservation Management Area shall be permitted 
                only on existing roads, trails, and areas designated 
                for use by such vehicles as of the date of enactment of 
                this Act.
                    (II) New or temporary roads.--Except as provided in 
                subclause (III), no new or temporary roads shall be 
                constructed within the Conservation Management Area.
                    (III) Exceptions.--Nothing in subclause (I) or (II) 
                prevents the Secretary from--

                        (aa) rerouting or closing an existing road or 
                    trail to protect natural resources from 
                    degradation, as determined to be appropriate by the 
                    Secretary;
                        (bb) constructing a temporary road on which 
                    motorized vehicles are permitted as part of a 
                    vegetation management project in any portion of the 
                    Conservation Management Area located not more than 
                    \1/4\ mile from the Teton Road, South Teton Road, 
                    Sun River Road, Beaver Willow Road, or Benchmark 
                    Road;
                        (cc) authorizing the use of motorized vehicles 
                    for administrative purposes (including noxious weed 
                    eradication or grazing management); or
                        (dd) responding to an emergency.

                    (IV) Decommissioning of temporary roads.--The 
                Secretary shall decommission any temporary road 
                constructed under subclause (III)(bb) not later than 3 
                years after the date on which the applicable vegetation 
                management project is completed.

                (iii) Grazing.--The Secretary shall permit grazing 
            within the Conservation Management Area, if established on 
            the date of enactment of this Act--

                    (I) subject to--

                        (aa) such reasonable regulations, policies, and 
                    practices as the Secretary determines appropriate; 
                    and
                        (bb) all applicable laws; and

                    (II) in a manner consistent with--

                        (aa) the purposes described in paragraph (2); 
                    and
                        (bb) the guidelines set forth in the report of 
                    the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of 
                    the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 5487 
                    of the 96th Congress (H. Rept. 96-617).
                (iv) Vegetation management.--Nothing in this section 
            prevents the Secretary from conducting vegetation 
            management projects within the Conservation Management 
            Area--

                    (I) subject to--

                        (aa) such reasonable regulations, policies, and 
                    practices as the Secretary determines appropriate; 
                    and
                        (bb) all applicable laws (including 
                    regulations); and

                    (II) in a manner consistent with the purposes 
                described in paragraph (2).

        (4) Adjacent management.--
            (A) In general.--The designation of the Conservation 
        Management Area shall not create a protective perimeter or 
        buffer zone around the Conservation Management Area.
            (B) Effect.--The fact that activities or uses can be seen 
        or heard from areas within the Conservation Management Area 
        shall not preclude the conduct of the activities or uses 
        outside the boundary of the Conservation Management Area.
    (c) Designation of Wilderness Additions.--
        (1) In general.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
    U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the following Federal land in the State is 
    designated as wilderness and as additions to existing components of 
    the National Wilderness Preservation System:
            (A) Bob marshall wilderness.--Certain land in the Lewis and 
        Clark National Forest, comprising approximately 50,401 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the map, which shall be added to and 
        administered as part of the Bob Marshall Wilderness designated 
        under section 3 of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1132).
            (B) Scapegoat wilderness.--Certain land in the Lewis and 
        Clark National Forest, comprising approximately 16,711 acres, 
        as generally depicted on the map, which shall be added to and 
        administered as part of the Scapegoat Wilderness designated by 
        the first section of Public Law 92-395 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note).
        (2) Management of wilderness additions.--Subject to valid 
    existing rights, the land designated as wilderness additions by 
    paragraph (1) shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance 
    with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that any 
    reference in that Act to the effective date of that Act shall be 
    deemed to be a reference to the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (3) Livestock.--The grazing of livestock and the maintenance of 
    existing facilities relating to grazing in the wilderness additions 
    designated by this subsection, if established before the date of 
    enactment of this Act, shall be permitted to continue in accordance 
    with--
            (A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(4)); and
            (B) the guidelines set forth in the report of the Committee 
        on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H. Rept. 96-617).
        (4) Wildfire, insect, and disease management.--In accordance 
    with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), 
    within the wilderness additions designated by this subsection, the 
    Secretary may take any measures that the Secretary determines to be 
    necessary to control fire, insects, and diseases, including, as the 
    Secretary determines appropriate, the coordination of those 
    activities with a State or local agency.
        (5) Adjacent management.--
            (A) In general.--The designation of a wilderness addition 
        by this subsection shall not create any protective perimeter or 
        buffer zone around the wilderness area.
            (B) Nonwilderness activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
        activities or uses can be seen or heard from areas within a 
        wilderness addition designated by this subsection shall not 
        preclude the conduct of those activities or uses outside the 
        boundary of the wilderness area.
    (d) Maps and Legal Descriptions.--
        (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare maps and legal 
    descriptions of the Conservation Management Area and the wilderness 
    additions designated by subsections (b) and (c), respectively.
        (2) Force of law.--The maps and legal descriptions prepared 
    under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
    included in this section, except that the Secretary may correct 
    typographical errors in the map and legal descriptions.
        (3) Public availability.--The maps and legal descriptions 
    prepared under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
    public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest Service 
    and Bureau of Land Management.
    (e) Noxious Weed Management.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall prepare a 
    comprehensive management strategy for preventing, controlling, and 
    eradicating noxious weeds in the district.
        (2) Contents.--The management strategy shall--
            (A) include recommendations to protect wildlife, forage, 
        and other natural resources in the district from noxious weeds;
            (B) identify opportunities to coordinate noxious weed 
        prevention, control, and eradication efforts in the district 
        with State and local agencies, Indian tribes, nonprofit 
        organizations, and others;
            (C) identify existing resources for preventing, 
        controlling, and eradicating noxious weeds in the district;
            (D) identify additional resources that are appropriate to 
        effectively prevent, control, or eradicate noxious weeds in the 
        district; and
            (E) identify opportunities to coordinate with county weed 
        districts in Glacier, Pondera, Teton, and Lewis and Clark 
        Counties in the State to apply for grants and enter into 
        agreements for noxious weed control and eradication projects 
        under the Noxious Weed Control and Eradication Act of 2004 (7 
        U.S.C. 7781 et seq.).
        (3) Consultation.--In developing the management strategy 
    required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult with--
            (A) the Secretary of the Interior;
            (B) appropriate State, tribal, and local governmental 
        entities; and
            (C) members of the public.
    (f) Nonmotorized Recreation Opportunities.--Not later than 2 years 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture, 
in consultation with interested parties, shall conduct a study to 
improve nonmotorized recreation trail opportunities (including mountain 
bicycling) on land not designated as wilderness within the district.
    (g) Management of Fish and Wildlife; Hunting and Fishing.--Nothing 
in this section affects the jurisdiction of the State with respect to 
fish and wildlife management (including the regulation of hunting and 
fishing) on public land in the State.
    (h) Overflights.--
        (1) Jurisdiction of the federal aviation administration.--
    Nothing in this section affects the jurisdiction of the Federal 
    Aviation Administration with respect to the airspace above the 
    wilderness or the Conservation Management Area.
        (2) Benchmark airstrip.--Nothing in this section affects the 
    continued use, maintenance, and repair of the Benchmark (3U7) 
    airstrip.
    (i) Release of Wilderness Study Areas.--
        (1) Finding.--Congress finds that, for the purposes of section 
    603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
    U.S.C. 1782(c)), the Zook Creek and Buffalo Creek wilderness study 
    areas in the State have been adequately studied for wilderness 
    designation.
        (2) Release.--The Zook Creek and Buffalo Creek wilderness study 
    areas--
            (A) are no longer subject to--
                (i) section 603(c) of the Federal Land Policy and 
            Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); or
                (ii) Secretarial Order 3310 issued on December 22, 
            2010; and
            (B) shall be managed in accordance with the applicable land 
        use plans adopted under section 202 of the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712).
    (j) Assessment Update.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall review and update the 
    assessment for oil and gas potential for the following wilderness 
    study areas in the State:
            (A) Bridge Coulee.
            (B) Musselshell Breaks.
        (2) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
    review is completed under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit 
    to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and 
    the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
    a report that describes the oil and gas potential for the 
    wilderness study areas.
SEC. 3066. WOVOKA WILDERNESS.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Lyon County, Nevada.
        (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Wovoka 
    Wilderness Area'' and dated December 18, 2012.
        (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    Agriculture.
        (4) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.
        (5) Wilderness.--The term ``Wilderness'' means the Wovoka 
    Wilderness designated by subsection (b)(1).
    (b) Wovoka Wilderness.--
        (1) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the 
    Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the Federal land managed 
    by the Forest Service, as generally depicted on the Map, is 
    designated as wilderness and as a component of the National 
    Wilderness Preservation System, to be known as the ``Wovoka 
    Wilderness''.
        (2) Boundary.--The boundary of any portion of the Wilderness 
    that is bordered by a road shall be 150 feet from the centerline of 
    the road.
        (3) Map and legal description.--
            (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare a map and 
        legal description of the Wilderness.
            (B) Effect.--The map and legal description prepared under 
        subparagraph (A) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this section, except that the Secretary may correct 
        any clerical and typographical errors in the map or legal 
        description.
            (C) Availability.--Each map and legal description prepared 
        under subparagraph (A) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest 
        Service.
        (4) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
    Wilderness is withdrawn from--
            (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (C) disposition under all laws relating to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
    (c) Administration.--
        (1) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
    Wilderness shall be administered by the Secretary in accordance 
    with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that any 
    reference in that Act to the effective date shall be considered to 
    be a reference to the date of enactment of this Act.
        (2) Livestock.--The grazing of livestock in the Wilderness, if 
    established before the date of enactment of this Act, shall be 
    allowed to continue, subject to such reasonable regulations, 
    policies, and practices as the Secretary considers to be necessary, 
    in accordance with--
            (A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(4)); and
            (B) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the report of 
        the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress 
        (House Report 101-405).
        (3) Incorporation of acquired land and interests.--Any land or 
    interest in land within the boundary of the Wilderness that is 
    acquired by the United States after the date of enactment of this 
    Act shall be added to and administered as part of the Wilderness.
        (4) Adjacent management.--
            (A) In general.--Congress does not intend for the 
        designation of the Wilderness to create a protective perimeter 
        or buffer zone around the Wilderness.
            (B) Nonwilderness activities.--The fact that nonwilderness 
        activities or uses can be seen or heard from areas within the 
        Wilderness shall not preclude the conduct of the activities or 
        uses outside the boundary of the Wilderness.
        (5) Overflights.--
            (A) Military overflights.--Nothing in this section 
        restricts or precludes--
                (i) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
            Wilderness, including military overflights that can been 
            seen or heard within the Wilderness;
                (ii) flight testing and evaluation; or
                (iii) the designation or creation of new units of 
            special airspace, or the establishment of military flight 
            training routes, over the Wilderness.
            (B) Existing airstrips.--Nothing in this section restricts 
        or precludes low-level overflights by aircraft originating from 
        airstrips in existence on the date of enactment of this Act 
        that are located within 5 miles of the proposed boundary of the 
        Wilderness.
        (6) Wildfire, insect, and disease management.--In accordance 
    with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), 
    the Secretary may take any measures in the Wilderness that the 
    Secretary determines to be necessary for the control of fire, 
    insects, and diseases, including, as the Secretary determines to be 
    appropriate, the coordination of the activities with a State or 
    local agency.
        (7) Water rights.--
            (A) Findings.--Congress finds that--
                (i) the Wilderness is located--

                    (I) in the semiarid region of the Great Basin; and
                    (II) at the headwaters of the streams and rivers on 
                land with respect to which there are few--

                        (aa) actual or proposed water resource 
                    facilities located upstream; and
                        (bb) opportunities for diversion, storage, or 
                    other uses of water occurring outside the land that 
                    would adversely affect the wilderness values of the 
                    land;
                (ii) the Wilderness is generally not suitable for use 
            or development of new water resource facilities; and
                (iii) because of the unique nature of the Wilderness, 
            it is possible to provide for proper management and 
            protection of the wilderness and other values of land in 
            ways different from those used in other laws.
            (B) Purpose.--The purpose of this paragraph is to protect 
        the wilderness values of the Wilderness by means other than a 
        federally reserved water right.
            (C) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this paragraph--
                (i) constitutes an express or implied reservation by 
            the United States of any water or water rights with respect 
            to the Wilderness;
                (ii) affects any water rights in the State (including 
            any water rights held by the United States) in existence on 
            the date of enactment of this Act;
                (iii) establishes a precedent with regard to any future 
            wilderness designations;
                (iv) affects the interpretation of, or any designation 
            made under, any other Act; or
                (v) limits, alters, modifies, or amends any interstate 
            compact or equitable apportionment decree that apportions 
            water among and between the State and other States.
            (D) Nevada water law.--The Secretary shall follow the 
        procedural and substantive requirements of State law in order 
        to obtain and hold any water rights not in existence on the 
        date of enactment of this Act with respect to the Wilderness.
            (E) New projects.--
                (i) Definition of water resource facility.--

                    (I) In general.--In this subparagraph, the term 
                ``water resource facility'' means irrigation and 
                pumping facilities, reservoirs, water conservation 
                works, aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, wells, 
                hydropower projects, transmission and other ancillary 
                facilities, and other water diversion, storage, and 
                carriage structures.
                    (II) Exclusion.--In this subparagraph, the term 
                ``water resource facility'' does not include wildlife 
                guzzlers.

                (ii) Restriction on new water resource facilities.--

                    (I) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in 
                this section, on or after the date of enactment of this 
                Act, no officer, employee, or agent of the United 
                States shall fund, assist, authorize, or issue a 
                license or permit for the development of any new water 
                resource facility within the Wilderness, any portion of 
                which is located in the County.
                    (II) Exception.--If a permittee within the Bald 
                Mountain grazing allotment submits an application for 
                the development of water resources for the purpose of 
                livestock watering by the date that is 10 years after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                issue a water development permit within the non-
                wilderness boundaries of the Bald Mountain grazing 
                allotment for the purposes of carrying out activities 
                under paragraph (2).

        (8) Nonwilderness roads.--Nothing in this section prevents the 
    Secretary from implementing or amending a final travel management 
    plan.
    (d) Wildlife Management.--
        (1) In general.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
    Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this section 
    affects or diminishes the jurisdiction of the State with respect to 
    fish and wildlife management, including the regulation of hunting, 
    fishing, and trapping, in the Wilderness.
        (2) Management activities.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
    principles of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), the 
    Secretary may conduct any management activities in the Wilderness 
    that are necessary to maintain or restore fish and wildlife 
    populations and the habitats to support the populations, if the 
    activities are carried out--
            (A) consistent with relevant wilderness management plans; 
        and
            (B) in accordance with--
                (i) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); and
                (ii) the guidelines set forth in Appendix B of the 
            report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs of 
            the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 
            101st Congress (House Report 101-405), including the 
            occasional and temporary use of motorized vehicles and 
            aircraft, if the use, as determined by the Secretary, would 
            promote healthy, viable, and more naturally distributed 
            wildlife populations that would enhance wilderness values 
            with the minimal impact necessary to reasonably accomplish 
            those tasks.
        (3) Existing activities.--Consistent with section 4(d)(1) of 
    the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and in accordance with 
    the guidelines set forth in Appendix B of House Report 101-405, the 
    State may continue to use aircraft, including helicopters, to 
    survey, capture, transplant, monitor, and provide water for 
    wildlife populations in the Wilderness.
        (4) Hunting, fishing, and trapping.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary may designate areas in 
        which, and establish periods during which, for reasons of 
        public safety, administration, or compliance with applicable 
        laws, no hunting, fishing, or trapping will be permitted in the 
        Wilderness.
            (B) Consultation.--Except in emergencies, the Secretary 
        shall consult with the appropriate State agency and notify the 
        public before making any designation under subparagraph (A).
        (5) Agreement.--The State, including a designee of the State, 
    may conduct wildlife management activities in the Wilderness--
            (A) in accordance with the terms and conditions specified 
        in the agreement between the Secretary and the State entitled 
        ``Memorandum of Understanding: Intermountain Region USDA Forest 
        Service and the Nevada Department of Wildlife State of Nevada'' 
        and signed by the designee of the State on February 6, 1984, 
        and by the designee of the Secretary on January 24, 1984, 
        including any amendments, appendices, or additions to the 
        agreement agreed to by the Secretary and the State or a 
        designee; and
            (B) subject to all applicable laws (including regulations).
    (e) Wildlife Water Development Projects.--Subject to subsection 
(c), the Secretary shall authorize structures and facilities, including 
existing structures and facilities, for wildlife water development 
projects (including guzzlers) in the Wilderness if--
        (1) the structures and facilities will, as determined by the 
    Secretary, enhance wilderness values by promoting healthy, viable, 
    and more naturally distributed wildlife populations; and
        (2) the visual impacts of the structures and facilities on the 
    Wilderness can reasonably be minimized.
    (f) Native American Cultural and Religious Uses.--Nothing in this 
section alters or diminishes the treaty rights of any Indian tribe.
SEC. 3067. WITHDRAWAL AREA RELATED TO WOVOKA WILDERNESS.
    (a) Definition of Withdrawal Area.--In this section, the term 
``Withdrawal Area'' means the land administered by the Forest Service 
and identified as ``Withdrawal Area'' on the map entitled ``Wovoka 
Wilderness Area'' and dated December 18, 2012.
    (b) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal land 
within the Withdrawal Area is withdrawn from all forms of--
        (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
    laws;
        (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
        (3) operation of the mineral laws, geothermal leasing laws, and 
    mineral materials laws.
    (c) Motorized and Mechanical Vehicles.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), use of motorized and 
    mechanical vehicles in the Withdrawal Area shall be permitted only 
    on roads and trails designated for the use of those vehicles, 
    unless the use of those vehicles is needed--
            (A) for administrative purposes; or
            (B) to respond to an emergency.
        (2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) does not apply to aircraft 
    (including helicopters).
    (d) Native American Cultural and Religious Uses.--Nothing in this 
section alters or diminishes the treaty rights of any Indian tribe.
SEC. 3068. WITHDRAWAL AND RESERVATION OF ADDITIONAL PUBLIC LAND FOR 
NAVAL AIR WEAPONS STATION, CHINA LAKE, CALIFORNIA.
    (a) In General.--Section 2971(b) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 
1044) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``subsection (a) is the Federal land'' and 
    inserting the following: ``subsection (a) is--
        ``(1) the Federal land''; and
        (2) by striking ``section 2912.'' and inserting the following: 
    ``section 2912;
        ``(2) approximately 7,556 acres of public land described at 
    Public Law 88-46 and commonly known as the Cuddeback Lake Air Force 
    Range; and
        ``(3) approximately 4,480 acres comprised of all the public 
    lands within: Sections 31 and 32 of Township 29S, Range 43E; 
    Sections 12, 13, 24, and 25 of Township 30S, Range 42E; and Section 
    5 and the northern half of Section 6 of Township 31S, Range 43E, 
    Mount Diablo Meridian, in the county of San Bernardino in the State 
    of California, (but excluding the parcel identified as `AF Fee 
    Simple') as depicted on the map entitled: `Cuddeback Area of the 
    Golden Valley Proposed Wilderness Additions, June 2014'.''.
    (b) Expirational Repeal.--The Act entitled ``An Act to provide for 
the withdrawal and reservation for the use of the Department of the Air 
Force of certain public lands of the United States at Cuddeback Lake 
Air Force Range, California, for defense purposes'', as approved June 
21, 1963 (Public Law 88-46; 77 Stat. 69), is repealed.

                   Subtitle F--Wild and Scenic Rivers

SEC. 3071. ILLABOT CREEK, WASHINGTON, WILD AND SCENIC RIVER.
    (a) Designation.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by inserting after paragraph (210), as 
added by section 3060(b), the following:
        ``(211) Illabot creek, washington.--
            ``(A) The 14.3-mile segment from the headwaters of Illabot 
        Creek to the northern terminus as generally depicted on the map 
        titled `Illabot Creek Proposed WSR-Northern Terminus', dated 
        September 15, 2009, to be administered by the Secretary of 
        Agriculture as follows:
                ``(i) The 4.3-mile segment from the headwaters of 
            Illabot Creek to the boundary of Glacier Peak Wilderness 
            Area as a wild river.
                ``(ii) The 10-mile segment from the boundary of Glacier 
            Peak Wilderness to the northern terminus as generally 
            depicted on the map titled `Illabot Creek Proposed WSR-
            Northern Terminus', dated September 15, 2009, as a 
            recreational river.
            ``(B) Action required to be taken under subsection (d)(1) 
        for the river segments designated under this paragraph shall be 
        completed through revision of the Skagit Wild and Scenic River 
        comprehensive management plan.''.
    (b) No Condemnation.--No land or interest in land within the 
boundary of the river segment designated by paragraph (211) of section 
3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) may be 
acquired by condemnation.
    (c) Adjacent Management.--
        (1) In general.--Nothing in paragraph (211) of section 3(a) of 
    the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) creates a 
    protective perimeter or buffer zone outside the designated boundary 
    of the river segment designated by that paragraph.
        (2) Outside activities.--The fact that an activity or use can 
    be seen or heard within the boundary of the river segment 
    designated by paragraph (211) of section 3(a) of the Wild and 
    Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) shall not preclude the 
    activity or use outside the boundary of the river segment.
SEC. 3072. MISSISQUOI AND TROUT WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS, VERMONT.
    (a) Designation of Wild and Scenic River Segments.--Section 3(a) of 
the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by 
inserting after paragraph (211), as added by section 3071(a), the 
following:
        ``(212) Missisquoi river and trout river, vermont.--The 
    following segments in the State of Vermont, to be administered by 
    the Secretary of the Interior as a recreational river:
            ``(A) The 20.5-mile segment of the Missisquoi River from 
        the Lowell/Westfield town line to the Canadian border in North 
        Troy, excluding the property and project boundary of the Troy 
        and North Troy hydroelectric facilities.
            ``(B) The 14.6-mile segment of the Missisquoi River from 
        the Canadian border in Richford to the upstream project 
        boundary of the Enosburg Falls hydroelectric facility in 
        Sampsonville.
            ``(C) The 11-mile segment of the Trout River from the 
        confluence of the Jay and Wade Brooks in Montgomery to where 
        the Trout River joins the Missisquoi River in East 
        Berkshire.''.
    (b) Management.--
        (1) Management.--
            (A) In general.--The river segments designated by paragraph 
        (212) of section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1274(a)) shall be managed in accordance with--
                (i) the Upper Missisquoi and Trout Rivers Management 
            Plan developed during the study described in section 
            5(b)(19) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 
            1276(b)(19)) (referred to in this subsection as the 
            ``management plan''); and
                (ii) such amendments to the management plan as the 
            Secretary of the Interior determines are consistent with 
            this section and as are approved by the Upper Missisquoi 
            and Trout Rivers Wild and Scenic Committee (referred to in 
            this subsection as the ``Committee'').
            (B) Comprehensive management plan.--The management plan, as 
        finalized in March 2013, and as amended, shall be considered to 
        satisfy the requirements for a comprehensive management plan 
        pursuant to section 3(d) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1274(d)).
            (C) Adjacent management.--
                (i) In general.--Nothing in paragraph (212) of section 
            3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) 
            creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone outside the 
            designated boundary of the river segments designated by 
            that paragraph.
                (ii) Outside activities.--The fact that an activity or 
            use can be seen or heard within the boundary of the river 
            segments designated by paragraph (212) of section 3(a) of 
            the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) shall 
            not preclude the activity or use outside the boundary of 
            the river segments.
        (2) Committee.--The Secretary shall coordinate management 
    responsibility of the Secretary of the Interior under this section 
    with the Committee, as specified in the management plan.
        (3) Cooperative agreements.--
            (A) In general.--In order to provide for the long-term 
        protection, preservation, and enhancement of the river segments 
        designated by paragraph (212) of section 3(a) of the Wild and 
        Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)), the Secretary of the 
        Interior may enter into cooperative agreements pursuant to 
        sections 10(e) and 11(b)(1) (16 U.S.C. 1281(e), 1282(b)(1)) of 
        the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act with--
                (i) the State of Vermont;
                (ii) the municipalities of Berkshire, Enosburg Falls, 
            Enosburgh, Montgomery, North Troy, Richford, Troy, and 
            Westfield; and
                (iii) appropriate local, regional, statewide, or multi-
            state planning, environmental, or recreational 
            organizations.
            (B) Consistency.--Each cooperative agreement entered into 
        under this paragraph shall be consistent with the management 
        plan and may include provisions for financial or other 
        assistance from the United States.
        (4) Effect on existing hydroelectric facilities.--
            (A) In general.--The designation of the river segments by 
        paragraph (212) of section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)), does not--
                (i) preclude the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
            from licensing, relicensing, or otherwise authorizing the 
            operation or continued operation of the Troy Hydroelectric, 
            North Troy, or Enosburg Falls hydroelectric project under 
            the terms of licenses or exemptions in effect on the date 
            of enactment of this Act; or
                (ii) limit modernization, upgrade, or other changes to 
            the projects described in clause (i), subject to written 
            determination by the Secretary of the Interior that the 
            changes are consistent with the purposes of the 
            designation.
            (B) Hydropower proceedings.--Resource protection, 
        mitigation, or enhancement measures required by Federal Energy 
        Regulatory Commission hydropower proceedings--
                (i) shall not be considered to be project works for 
            purposes of this section; and
                (ii) may be located within the river segments 
            designated by paragraph (212) of section 3(a) of the Wild 
            and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)), subject to a 
            written determination by the Secretary that the measures 
            are consistent with the purposes of the designation.
        (5) Land management.--
            (A) Zoning ordinances.--For the purpose of the segments 
        designated by paragraph (212) of section 3(a) of the Wild and 
        Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)), the zoning ordinances 
        adopted by the towns of Berkshire, Enosburg Falls, Enosburgh, 
        Montgomery, North Troy, Richford, Troy, and Westfield in the 
        State of Vermont, including provisions for conservation of 
        floodplains, wetlands, and watercourses associated with the 
        segments, shall be considered to satisfy the standards and 
        requirements of section 6(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 1277(c)).
            (B) Acquisitions of land.--The authority of the Secretary 
        to acquire land for the purposes of the segments designated by 
        paragraph (212) of section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) shall be--
                (i) limited to acquisition by donation or acquisition 
            with the consent of the owner of the land; and
                (ii) subject to the additional criteria set forth in 
            the management plan.
            (C) No condemnation.--No land or interest in land within 
        the boundary of the river segments designated by paragraph 
        (212) of section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1274(a)) may be acquired by condemnation.
        (6) Relation to national park system.--Notwithstanding section 
    10(c) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1281(c)), the 
    Missisquoi and Trout Rivers shall not be administered as part of 
    the National Park System or be subject to regulations that govern 
    the National Park System.
SEC. 3073. WHITE CLAY CREEK WILD AND SCENIC RIVER EXPANSION.
    (a) Designation of Segments of White Clay Creek, as Scenic and 
Recreational Rivers.--Section 3(a)(163) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
Act (16 U.S. C. 1274(a)(163)) is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)--
            (A) by striking ``190 miles'' and inserting ``199 miles''; 
        and
            (B) by striking ``the recommended designation and 
        classification maps (dated June 2000)'' and inserting ``the map 
        entitled `White Clay Creek Wild and Scenic River Designated 
        Area Map' and dated July 2008, the map entitled `White Clay 
        Creek Wild and Scenic River Classification Map' and dated July 
        2008, and the map entitled `White Clay Creek National Wild and 
        Scenic River Proposed Additional Designated Segments-July 
        2008''';
        (2) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following:
            ``(B) 22.4 miles of the east branch beginning at the 
        southern boundary line of the Borough of Avondale, including 
        Walnut Run, Broad Run, and Egypt Run, outside the boundaries of 
        the White Clay Creek Preserve, as a recreational river.''; and
        (3) by striking subparagraph (H) and inserting the following:
            ``(H) 14.3 miles of the main stem, including Lamborn Run, 
        that flow through the boundaries of the White Clay Creek 
        Preserve, Pennsylvania and Delaware, and White Clay Creek State 
        Park, Delaware, beginning at the confluence of the east and 
        middle branches in London Britain Township, Pennsylvania, 
        downstream to the northern boundary line of the City of Newark, 
        Delaware, as a scenic river.''.
    (b) Administration of White Clay Creek.--Sections 4 through 8 of 
Public Law 106-357 (16 U.S.C. 1274 note; 114 Stat. 1393), shall be 
applicable to the additional segments of White Clay Creek designated by 
the amendments made by subsection (a).
    (c) No Condemnation.--No land or interest in land within the 
boundary of the additional segments of White Clay Creek designated by 
the amendments made by subsection (a) may be acquired by condemnation.
    (d) Adjacent Management.--
        (1) In general.--Nothing in the amendments made by subsection 
    (a) creates a protective perimeter or buffer zone outside the 
    designated boundary of the additional segments of White Clay Creek 
    designated by the amendments made by that subsection.
        (2) Outside activities.--The fact that an activity or use can 
    be seen or heard within the boundary of the additional segments of 
    White Clay Creek designated by the amendments made by subsection 
    (a) shall not preclude the activity or use outside the boundary of 
    the segment.
SEC. 3074. STUDIES OF WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.
    (a) Designation for Study.--Section 5(a) of the Wild and Scenic 
Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1276(a)) is amended by inserting after paragraph 
(141), as added by section 3041(e), the following:
        ``(142) Beaver, chipuxet, queen, wood, and pawcatuck rivers, 
    rhode island and connecticut.--The following segments:
            ``(A) The approximately 10-mile segment of the Beaver River 
        from the headwaters in Exeter, Rhode Island, to the confluence 
        with the Pawcatuck River.
            ``(B) The approximately 5-mile segment of the Chipuxet 
        River from Hundred Acre Pond to the outlet into Worden Pond.
            ``(C) The approximately 10-mile segment of the upper Queen 
        River from the headwaters to the Usquepaugh Dam in South 
        Kingstown, Rhode Island, including all tributaries of the upper 
        Queen River.
            ``(D) The approximately 5-mile segment of the lower Queen 
        (Usquepaugh) River from the Usquepaugh Dam to the confluence 
        with the Pawcatuck River.
            ``(E) The approximately 11-mile segment of the upper Wood 
        River from the headwaters to Skunk Hill Road in Richmond and 
        Hopkinton, Rhode Island, including all tributaries of the upper 
        Wood River.
            ``(F) The approximately 10-mile segment of the lower Wood 
        River from Skunk Hill Road to the confluence with the Pawcatuck 
        River.
            ``(G) The approximately 28-mile segment of the Pawcatuck 
        River from Worden Pond to Nooseneck Hill Road (Rhode Island Rte 
        3) in Hopkinton and Westerly, Rhode Island.
            ``(H) The approximately 7-mile segment of the lower 
        Pawcatuck River from Nooseneck Hill Road to Pawcatuck Rock, 
        Stonington, Connecticut, and Westerly, Rhode Island.
        ``(143) Nashua river, massachusetts.--The following segments:
            ``(A) The approximately 19-mile segment of the mainstem of 
        the Nashua River from the confluence with the North and South 
        Nashua Rivers in Lancaster, Massachusetts, north to the 
        Massachusetts-New Hampshire State line, excluding the 
        approximately 4.8-mile segment of the mainstem of the Nashua 
        River from the Route 119 bridge in Groton, Massachusetts, 
        downstream to the confluence with the Nissitissit River in 
        Pepperell, Massachusetts.
            ``(B) The 10-mile segment of the Squannacook River from the 
        headwaters at Ash Swamp downstream to the confluence with the 
        Nashua River in the towns of Shirley and Ayer, Massachusetts.
            ``(C) The 3.5-mile segment of the Nissitissit River from 
        the Massachusetts-New Hampshire State line downstream to the 
        confluence with the Nashua River in Pepperell, Massachusetts.
        ``(144) York river, maine.--The segment of the York River that 
    flows 11.25 miles from the headwaters of the York River at York 
    Pond to the mouth of the river at York Harbor, and any associated 
    tributaries.''.
    (b) Study and Report.--Section 5(b) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1276(b)) is amended by inserting after paragraph (20), 
as added by section 3041(e), the following:
        ``(21) Beaver, chipuxet, queen, wood, and pawcatuck rivers, 
    rhode island and connecticut; nashua river, massachusetts; york 
    river, maine.--
            ``(A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date on 
        which funds are made available to carry out this paragraph, the 
        Secretary of the Interior shall--
                ``(i) complete each of the studies described in 
            paragraphs (142), (143), and (144) of subsection (a); and
                ``(ii) submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of 
            the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy 
            and Natural Resources of the Senate a report that describes 
            the results of each of the studies.
            ``(B) Report requirements.--In assessing the potential 
        additions to the wild and scenic river system, the report 
        submitted under subparagraph (A)(ii) shall--
                ``(i) determine the effect of the designation on--

                    ``(I) existing commercial and recreational 
                activities, such as hunting, fishing, trapping, 
                recreational shooting, motor boat use, and bridge 
                construction;
                    ``(II) the authorization, construction, operation, 
                maintenance, or improvement of energy production, 
                transmission, or other infrastructure; and
                    ``(III) the authority of State and local 
                governments to manage the activities described in 
                subclauses (I) and (II);

                ``(ii) identify any authorities that, in a case in 
            which an area studied under paragraph (142), (143), or 
            (144) of subsection (a) is designated under this Act--

                    ``(I) would authorize or require the Secretary of 
                the Interior--

                        ``(aa) to influence local land use decisions, 
                    such as zoning; or
                        ``(bb) to place restrictions on non-Federal 
                    land if designated under this Act; and

                    ``(II) the Secretary of the Interior may use to 
                condemn property; and

                ``(iii) identify any private property located in an 
            area studied under paragraph (142), (143), or (144) of 
            subsection (a).''.

                        Subtitle G--Trust Lands

SEC. 3077. LAND TAKEN INTO TRUST FOR BENEFIT OF THE NORTHERN CHEYENNE 
TRIBE.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Northern Cheyenne Trust 
    Fund identified in the June 7, 1999 Agreement Settling Certain 
    Issues Relating to the Tongue River Dam Project, which was entered 
    into by the Tribe, the State, and delegates of the Secretary, and 
    managed by the Office of Special Trustee in the Department of the 
    Interior.
        (2) Great northern properties.--The term ``Great Northern 
    Properties'' means the Great Northern Properties Limited 
    Partnership, which is a Delaware limited partnership.
        (3) Permanent fund.--The term ``Permanent Fund'' means the 
    Northern Cheyenne Tribe Permanent Fund managed by the Tribe 
    pursuant to the Plan for Investment, Management and Use of the 
    Fund, as amended by vote of the tribal membership on November 2, 
    2010.
        (4) Reservation.--The term ``Reservation'' means the Northern 
    Cheyenne Reservation.
        (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (6) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Montana.
        (7) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means the Northern Cheyenne 
    Tribe.
    (b) Tribal Fee Land to Be Taken Into Trust.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), not later than 60 
    days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
    take into trust for the benefit of the Tribe the approximately 932 
    acres of land depicted on--
            (A) the map entitled ``Northern Cheyenne Lands Act - Fee-
        to-Trust Lands'' and dated April 22, 2014; and
            (B) the map entitled ``Northern Cheyenne Lands Act - Fee-
        to-Trust Lands - Lame Deer Townsite'' and dated April 22, 2014.
        (2) Limitation.--Any land located in the State of South Dakota 
    that is included on the maps referred to in subparagraphs (A) and 
    (B) of paragraph (1) shall not be taken into trust pursuant to that 
    paragraph.
    (c) Mineral Rights to Be Taken Into Trust.--
        (1) Completion of mineral conveyances.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date on 
        which the Secretary receives the notification described in 
        paragraph (3), in a single transaction--
                (i) Great Northern Properties shall convey to the Tribe 
            all right, title, and interest of Great Northern 
            Properties, consisting of coal and iron ore mineral 
            interests, underlying the land on the Reservation generally 
            depicted as ``Great Northern Properties'' on the map 
            entitled ``Northern Cheyenne Land Act - Coal Tracts'' and 
            dated April 22, 2014; and
                (ii) subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall 
            convey to Great Northern Properties all right, title, and 
            interest of the United States in and to the coal mineral 
            interests underlying the land generally depicted as ``Bull 
            Mountains'' and ``East Fork'' on the map entitled 
            ``Northern Cheyenne Federal Tracts'' and dated April 22, 
            2014.
            (B) Requirement.--The Secretary shall ensure that the deed 
        for the conveyance authorized by subparagraph (A)(ii) shall 
        include a covenant running with the land that--
                (i) precludes the coal conveyed from being mined by any 
            method other than underground mining techniques until any 
            surface owner (as defined in section 714(e) of Public Law 
            95-87 (30 U.S.C. 1304(e))) for a specific tract has 
            provided to Great Northern Properties written consent to 
            enter the specific tract and commence surface mining;
                (ii) shall not create any property interest in the 
            United States or any surface owner (as defined in section 
            714(e) of Public Law 95-87 (30 U.S.C. 1304(e))); and
                (iii) shall not affect, abridge, or amend any valid 
            existing rights of any surface owner of a specific tract or 
            any adjacent tracts.
        (2) Treatment of land transferred to tribe.--
            (A) In general.--At the request of the Tribe, the Secretary 
        shall take into trust for the benefit of the Tribe the mineral 
        interests conveyed to the Tribe under paragraph (1)(A)(i).
            (B) No state taxation.--The mineral interests conveyed to 
        the Tribe under paragraph (1)(A)(i) shall not be subject to 
        taxation by the State (including any political subdivision of 
        the State).
        (3) Revenue sharing agreement.--The Tribe shall notify the 
    Secretary, in writing, that--
            (A) consistent with a settlement agreement entered into 
        between the Tribe and the State in 2002, the Tribe and Great 
        Northern Properties have agreed on a formula for sharing 
        revenue from development of the mineral interests described in 
        paragraph (1)(A)(ii) if those mineral interests are developed;
            (B) the revenue sharing agreement remains in effect as of 
        the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (C) Great Northern Properties has offered to convey the 
        mineral interests described in paragraph (1)(A)(i) to the 
        Tribe.
        (4) Waiver of legal claims.--As a condition of the conveyances 
    of mineral interests under paragraph (1)(A)--
            (A) the Tribe shall waive any and all claims relating to 
        the failure of the United States to acquire and take into trust 
        on behalf of the Tribe the mineral interests described in 
        paragraph (1)(A)(i), as directed by Congress in 1900; and
            (B) Great Northern Properties shall waive any and all 
        claims against the United States relating to the value of the 
        coal mineral interests described in paragraph (1)(A)(ii).
        (5) Rescission of mineral conveyances.--If any portion of the 
    mineral interests conveyed under paragraph (1)(A) is invalidated by 
    final judgment of a court of the United States--
            (A) not later than 1 year after the date on which the final 
        judgment is rendered, the Secretary or Great Northern 
        Properties may agree to rescind the conveyances under paragraph 
        (1)(A); and
            (B) if the conveyances are rescinded under subparagraph 
        (A), the waivers under paragraph (4) shall no longer apply.
    (d) Transfer of Northern Cheyenne Trust Fund to Tribe.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, all amounts in the Fund shall be deposited 
    in the Permanent Fund.
        (2) Use of amounts.--Of the amounts transferred to the 
    Permanent Fund under paragraph (1)--
            (A) the portion that is attributable to the principal of 
        the Fund shall be maintained in perpetuity; and
            (B) any interest earned on the amounts described in 
        subparagraph (A) shall be used in the same manner as interest 
        earned on amounts in the Permanent Fund may be used.
        (3) Waiver of legal claims.--As a condition of the transfer 
    under paragraph (1), the Tribe shall waive any and all claims 
    arising from the management of the Fund by the United States.
    (e) Land Consolidation and Fractionation Reporting.--
        (1) Inventory.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Tribe, shall prepare an inventory of fractionated land 
        interests held by the United States in trust for the benefit 
        of--
                (i) the Tribe; or
                (ii) individual Indians on the Reservation.
            (B) Agricultural purposes.--The inventory prepared by the 
        Secretary under this paragraph shall include details currently 
        available about fractionated land on the Reservation suitable 
        for agricultural purposes.
            (C) Submission.--The Secretary shall submit the inventory 
        prepared under this paragraph to the Committee on Indian 
        Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of 
        the House of Representatives by not later than 180 days after 
        the date of enactment of this Act.
        (2) Report.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Tribe, shall prepare periodic reports regarding obstacles to 
        consolidating trust land ownership on the Reservation.
            (B) Contents.--The reports under this paragraph shall 
        include--
                (i) a description of existing obstacles to 
            consolidating trust land ownership, including the extent of 
            fractionation;
                (ii) a description of progress achieved by the Tribe 
            toward reducing fractionation and increasing trust land 
            ownership;
                (iii) an analysis of progress achieved by the Tribe 
            toward making agricultural use economical on trust land; 
            and
                (iv) any applicable outcomes and lessons learned from 
            land consolidation activities undertaken pursuant to the 
            Indian Land Consolidation Act (25 U.S.C. 2201 et seq.).
            (C) Submission.--The Secretary shall submit the reports 
        under this paragraph to the Committee on Indian Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives not less frequently than once each calendar 
        year for the 5-year period beginning on the date of enactment 
        of this Act.
    (f) Eligibility for Other Federal Benefits.--The transfer under 
subsection (d) shall not result in the reduction or denial of any 
Federal service, benefit, or program to the Tribe or to any member of 
the Tribe to which the Tribe or member is entitled or eligible because 
of--
        (1) the status of the Tribe as a federally recognized Indian 
    tribe; or
        (2) the status of the member as a member of the Tribe.
SEC. 3078. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION, BADGER ARMY 
AMMUNITION PLANT, BARABOO, WISCONSIN.
    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``Property'' means 
approximately 1,553 acres, including federally owned structures 
thereon, located within the boundary of the former Badger Army 
Ammunition Plant near Baraboo, Wisconsin.
    (b) Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction.--
        (1) In general.--Administrative jurisdiction over the Property 
    is hereby transferred from the Secretary of the Army to the 
    Secretary of the Interior.
        (2) Structures.--Upon receipt by the Secretary of the Interior 
    of a resolution from the Ho-Chunk Nation accepting title to the 
    structures, all federally owned structures on the Property are 
    hereby transferred to the Ho-Chunk Nation in fee.
        (3) Trust status.--The Property, less the structures thereon, 
    shall be held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior for the 
    benefit of the Ho-Chunk Nation and shall be a part of the 
    reservation of the Ho-Chunk Nation.
        (4) Legal description.--As soon as practicable after the 
    transfer, the Secretary of the Interior, with the concurrence of 
    the Secretary of the Army, shall publish in the Federal Register a 
    legal description of the Property.
    (c) Retention of Environmental Response Responsibilities by the 
Army.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding the transfer of the Property 
    by subsection (b), the Secretary of the Army shall be responsible--
            (A) for obtaining final case closure and no-action-required 
        remedial determinations for the Property from the Wisconsin 
        Department of Natural Resources; and
            (B) for any additional remedial actions, with respect to 
        any hazardous substance remaining on the Property, found to be 
        necessary to protect human health and the environment to 
        support the recreational and grazing land reuse (including 
        agricultural activities necessary to sustain such reuse) 
        considered for the final case closure and no-action-required 
        determinations of the Wisconsin Department of Natural 
        Resources.
        (2) Limitation.--The responsibility described in paragraph (1) 
    is limited to the remediation of releases of hazardous substances 
    resulting from the activities of the Department of Defense that 
    occurred before the date on which administrative jurisdiction of 
    the Property is transferred under this section.
        (3) Other uses of the property by the secretary of the interior 
    or the ho-chunk nation.--The Secretary of the Interior shall not 
    take any action to authorize, nor shall the Ho-Chunk Nation 
    undertake or allow, any activity on or use of the Property 
    inconsistent with the case closure conditions required by the 
    Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources except as provided in 
    this paragraph. Nothing in this section shall preclude the Ho-Chunk 
    Nation from undertaking, in accordance with applicable laws and 
    regulations and without any cost to the Department of Defense or 
    the Department of the Interior, such additional action necessary to 
    allow for uses of the Property other than uses that are consistent 
    with the case closure conditions required by the Wisconsin 
    Department of Natural Resources.
        (4) Access by the united states.--(A) The United States retains 
    and reserves a perpetual and assignable easement and right of 
    access on, over, and through the Property, to enter upon the 
    Property in any case in which an environmental response or 
    corrective action is found to be necessary on the part of the 
    United States, without regard to whether such environmental 
    response or corrective action is on the Property or on adjoining or 
    nearby lands. Such easement and right of access includes, without 
    limitation, the right to perform any environmental investigation, 
    survey, monitoring, sampling, testing, drilling, boring, coring, 
    testpitting, installing monitoring or pumping wells or other 
    treatment facilities, response action, corrective action, or any 
    other action necessary for the United States to meet its 
    responsibilities under applicable laws and as provided for in this 
    section.
        (B) In exercising such easement and right of access, the United 
    States shall provide the property holder or owner and their 
    successors or assigns, as the case may be, with reasonable notice 
    of its intent to enter upon the Property and exercise its rights 
    under this clause, which notice may be severely curtailed or even 
    eliminated in emergency situations. The United States shall use 
    reasonable means to avoid and to minimize interference with the 
    property holder's or owner's and their successors' and assigns', as 
    the case may be, quiet enjoyment of the Property. At the completion 
    of work, the work site shall be reasonably restored. Such easement 
    and right of access includes the right to obtain and use utility 
    services, including water, gas, electricity, sewer, and 
    communications services available on the Property at a reasonable 
    charge to the United States. Excluding the reasonable charges for 
    such utility services, no fee, charge, or compensation will be due 
    the property holder or owner, their successors and assigns, for the 
    exercise of the easement and right of access hereby retained and 
    reserved by the United States.
        (C) In exercising such easement and right of access, neither 
    the Ho-Chunk Nation nor its successors and assigns, as the case may 
    be, shall have any claim at law or equity against the United States 
    or any officer, employee, agent, contractor of any tier, or servant 
    of the United States based on actions taken by the United States or 
    its officers, employees, agents, contractors of any tier, or 
    servants pursuant to and in accordance with this clause: Provided, 
    however, that nothing in this paragraph shall be considered as a 
    waiver by the Ho-Chunk Nation, its successors and assigns, of any 
    remedy available to them under the Federal Tort Claims Act.
    (d) Treatment of Existing Easements, Permit Rights, and Rights-of-
way.--
        (1) In general.--The transfer of administrative jurisdiction 
    under this section recognizes and preserves, in perpetuity and 
    without the right of revocation except as provided in paragraph 
    (2), easements, permit rights, and rights-of-way and access to such 
    easements and rights-of-way of any applicable utility service 
    provider in existence at the time of the conveyance prior to the 
    date of enactment of this Act. The rights recognized and preserved 
    include the right to upgrade applicable utility services.
        (2) Termination.--An easement, permit right, or right-of-way 
    recognized and preserved under paragraph (1) shall terminate only--
            (A) on the relocation of an applicable utility service 
        referred to in paragraph (1), and then only with respect to 
        that portion of those utility facilities that are relocated; or
            (B) with the consent of the holder of the easement, permit 
        right, or right-of-way.
        (3) Additional easements.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
    grant to a utility service provider, without consideration, such 
    additional easements across the property transferred under this 
    section as the Secretary considers necessary to accommodate the 
    relocation or reconnection of a utility service existing prior to 
    the date of enactment of this section on property held by the 
    Secretary of the Interior in trust for the Ho-Chunk Nation.
    (e) Prohibition on Gaming.--Any real property taken into trust 
under this section shall not be eligible, or used, for any gaming 
activity carried out under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 
2701 et seq.).
    (f) Liability of the United States Unchanged.--Nothing in this 
section shall diminish or increase the liability of the United States 
or otherwise affect the liability of the United States under any 
provision of law.

          Subtitle H--Miscellaneous Access and Property Issues

SEC. 3081. ENSURING PUBLIC ACCESS TO THE SUMMIT OF RATTLESNAKE MOUNTAIN 
IN THE HANFORD REACH NATIONAL MONUMENT.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Interior shall provide public 
access to the summit of Rattlesnake Mountain in the Hanford Reach 
National Monument for educational, recreational, historical, 
scientific, cultural, and other purposes, including--
        (1) motor vehicle access; and
        (2) pedestrian and other nonmotorized access.
    (b) Cooperative Agreements.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
enter into cooperative agreements to facilitate access to the summit of 
Rattlesnake Mountain--
        (1) with the Secretary of Energy, the State of Washington, or 
    any local government agency or other interested persons, for guided 
    tours, including guided motorized tours to the summit of 
    Rattlesnake Mountain; and
        (2) with the Secretary of Energy, and with the State of 
    Washington or any local government agency or other interested 
    persons, to maintain the access road to the summit of Rattlesnake 
    Mountain.
SEC. 3082. ANCHORAGE, ALASKA, CONVEYANCE OF REVERSIONARY INTERESTS.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the municipality of 
    Anchorage, Alaska.
        (2) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
    certain parcels of land located in the City and owned by the City, 
    which are more particularly described as follows:
            (A) Block 42, Original Townsite of Anchorage, Anchorage 
        Recording District, Third Judicial District, State of Alaska, 
        consisting of approximately 1.93 acres, commonly known as the 
        Egan Center, Petrovich Park, and Old City Hall.
            (B) Lots 9, 10, and 11, Block 66, Original Townsite of 
        Anchorage, Anchorage Recording District, Third Judicial 
        District, State of Alaska, consisting of approximately 0.48 
        acres, commonly known as the parking lot at 7th Avenue and I 
        Street.
            (C) Lot 13, Block 15, Original Townsite of Anchorage, 
        Anchorage Recording District, Third Judicial District, State of 
        Alaska, consisting of approximately 0.24 acres, an unimproved 
        vacant lot located at H Street and Christensen Drive.
        (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
    (b) Conveyance of Reversionary Interests, Anchorage, Alaska.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
    the Secretary shall convey to the City, without consideration, the 
    reversionary interests of the United States in and to the non-
    Federal land for the purpose of unencumbering the title to the non-
    Federal land to enable economic development of the non-Federal 
    land.
        (2) Legal descriptions.--As soon as practicable after the date 
    of enactment of this Act, the exact legal descriptions of the non-
    Federal land shall be determined in a manner satisfactory to the 
    Secretary.
        (3) Costs.--The City shall pay all costs associated with the 
    conveyance under paragraph (1), including the costs of any surveys, 
    recording costs, and other reasonable costs.
SEC. 3083. RELEASE OF PROPERTY INTERESTS IN BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT 
LAND CONVEYED TO THE STATE OF OREGON FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF HERMISTON 
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION CENTER.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Hermiston 
    Agricultural Research and Extension Center'' and dated April 7, 
    2014.
        (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land 
    Management.
        (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Oregon 
    (acting through the Oregon State Board of Higher Education on 
    behalf of Oregon State University).
    (b) Release of Retained Interests.--
        (1) In general.--Any reservation or reversionary interest 
    retained by the United States to the approximately 290 acres in 
    Hermiston, Oregon, depicted as ``Reversionary Interest Area'' on 
    the Map, is hereby released without consideration.
        (2) Instrument of release.--The Secretary shall execute and 
    file in the appropriate office a deed of release, amended deed, or 
    other appropriate instrument reflecting the release of retained 
    interests under paragraph (1).
    (c) Conveyance of Orphan Parcel.--Notwithstanding the land use 
planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712, 1713), not later 
than 180 days after the date on which the Secretary receives a request 
from the State, the Secretary shall convey to the State, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States to 
and in the approximately 6 acres identified on the Map as ``Bureau of 
Land Management Administered Land''.

                    Subtitle I--Water Infrastructure

SEC. 3087. BUREAU OF RECLAMATION HYDROPOWER DEVELOPMENT.
    Section 9 of the Act of August 11, 1939 (commonly known as the 
``Water Conservation and Utilization Act'') (16 U.S.C. 590z-7) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``In connection with'' and inserting ``(a) In 
    General.--In connection with''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Certain Leases Authorized.--
        ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), the 
    Secretary--
            ``(A) may enter into leases of power privileges for 
        electric power generation in connection with any project 
        constructed pursuant to this Act; and
            ``(B) shall have authority over any project constructed 
        pursuant to this Act in addition to and alternative to any 
        existing authority relating to a particular project.
        ``(2) Process.--In entering into a lease of power privileges 
    under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall use the processes, terms, 
    and conditions applicable to a lease under section 9(c) of the 
    Reclamation Project Act of 1939 (43 U.S.C. 485h(c)).
        ``(3) Findings not required.--No findings under section 3 shall 
    be required for a lease under paragraph (1).
        ``(4) Rights retained by lessee.--Except as otherwise provided 
    under paragraph (5), all right, title, and interest in and to 
    installed power facilities constructed by non-Federal entities 
    pursuant to a lease under paragraph (1), and any direct revenues 
    derived from that lease, shall remain with the lessee.
        ``(5) Lease charges.--Notwithstanding section 8, lease charges 
    shall be credited to the project from which the power is derived.
        ``(6) Effect.--Nothing in this section alters or affects any 
    agreement in effect on the date of enactment of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 for the development 
    of hydropower projects or disposition of revenues.''.
SEC. 3088. TOLEDO BEND HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT.
    Notwithstanding section 3(2) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 
796(2)), Federal land within the Sabine National Forest or the Indian 
Mounds Wilderness Area occupied by the Toledo Bend Hydroelectric 
Project numbered 2305 shall not be considered to be--
        (1) a reservation, for purposes of section 4(e) of that Act (16 
    U.S.C. 797(e));
        (2) land or other property of the United States for purposes of 
    recompensing the United States for the use, occupancy, or enjoyment 
    of the land under section 10(e)(1) of that Act (16 U.S.C. 
    803(e)(1)); or
        (3) land of the United States, for purposes of section 24 of 
    that Act (16 U.S.C. 818).
SEC. 3089. EAST BENCH IRRIGATION DISTRICT CONTRACT EXTENSION.
    Section 2(1) of the East Bench Irrigation District Water Contract 
Extension Act (Public Law 112-139; 126 Stat. 390) is amended by 
striking ``4 years'' and inserting ``10 years''.

                       Subtitle J--Other Matters

SEC. 3091. COMMEMORATION OF CENTENNIAL OF WORLD WAR I.
    (a) Liberty Memorial as World War I Museum and Memorial.--
        (1) Designation of liberty memorial.--The Liberty Memorial of 
    Kansas City at America's National World War I Museum in Kansas 
    City, Missouri, is hereby designated as a ``World War I Museum and 
    Memorial''.
        (2) Ceremonies.--The World War I Centennial Commission (in this 
    section referred to as the ``Commission'') may plan, develop, and 
    execute ceremonies to recognize the designation of the Liberty 
    Memorial of Kansas City as a World War I Museum and Memorial.
    (b) Pershing Park as World War I Memorial.--
        (1) Redesignation of pershing park.--Pershing Park in the 
    District of Columbia is hereby redesignated as a ``World War I 
    Memorial''.
        (2) Ceremonies.--The Commission may plan, develop, and execute 
    ceremonies for the rededication of Pershing Park, as it approaches 
    its 50th anniversary, as a World War I Memorial and for the 
    enhancement of the General Pershing Commemorative Work as 
    authorized by paragraph (3).
        (3) Authority to enhance commemorative work.--
            (A) In general.--The Commission may enhance the General 
        Pershing Commemorative Work by constructing on the land 
        designated by paragraph (1) as a World War I Memorial 
        appropriate sculptural and other commemorative elements, 
        including landscaping, to further honor the service of members 
        of the United States Armed Forces in World War I.
            (B) General pershing commemorative work defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``General Pershing Commemorative Work'' 
        means the memorial to the late John J. Pershing, General of the 
        Armies of the United States, who commanded the American 
        Expeditionary Forces in World War I, and to the officers and 
        men under his command, as authorized by Public Law 89-786 (80 
        Stat. 1377).
        (4) Compliance with standards for commemorative works.--
            (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        chapter 89 of title 40, United States Code, applies to the 
        enhancement of the General Pershing Commemorative Work under 
        this subsection.
            (B) Waiver of certain requirements.--
                (i) Site selection for memorial.--Section 8905 of such 
            title does not apply with respect to the selection of the 
            site for the World War I Memorial.
                (ii) Certain conditions.--Section 8908(b) of such title 
            does not apply to this subsection.
        (5) No infringement upon existing memorial.--The World War I 
    Memorial designated by paragraph (1) may not interfere with or 
    encroach on the District of Columbia War Memorial.
        (6) Deposit of excess funds.--
            (A) Use for other world war i commemorative activities.--
        If, upon payment of all expenses for the enhancement of the 
        General Pershing Commemorative Work under this subsection 
        (including the maintenance and preservation amount required by 
        section 8906(b)(1) of title 40, United States Code), there 
        remains a balance of funds received for such purpose, the 
        Commission may use the amount of the balance for other 
        commemorative activities authorized under the World War I 
        Centennial Commission Act (Public Law 112-272; 126 Stat. 2448).
            (B) Use for other commemorative works.--If the authority 
        for enhancement of the General Pershing Commemorative Work and 
        the authority of the Commission to plan and conduct 
        commemorative activities under the World War I Centennial 
        Commission Act have expired and there remains a balance of 
        funds received for the enhancement of the General Pershing 
        Commemorative Work, the Commission shall transmit the amount of 
        the balance to a separate account with the National Park 
        Foundation, to be available to the Secretary of the Interior 
        following the process provided in section 8906(b)(4) of title 
        40, United States Code, for accounts established under section 
        8906(b)(3) of such title, except that funds in such account may 
        only be obligated subject to appropriation.
        (7) Authorization to complete construction after termination of 
    commission.--Section 8 of the World War I Centennial Commission Act 
    (Public Law 112-272) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``The Centennial 
        Commission'' and inserting ``Except as provided in subsection 
        (c), the Centennial Commission''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Exception for Completion of World War I Memorial.--The 
Centennial Commission may perform such work as is necessary to complete 
the rededication of a World War I Memorial and enhancement of the 
General Pershing Commemorative Work under section 3091(b) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015, subject to 
section 8903 of title 40, United States Code.''.
    (c) Additional Amendments to World War I Centennial Commission 
Act.--
        (1) Ex officio and other advisory members.--Section 4 of the 
    World War I Centennial Commission Act (Public Law 112-272; 126 
    Stat. 2449) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(e) Ex Officio and Other Advisory Members.--
        ``(1) Powers.--The individuals listed in paragraphs (2) and 
    (3), or their designated representative, shall serve on the 
    Centennial Commission solely to provide advice and information to 
    the members of the Centennial Commission appointed pursuant to 
    subsection (b)(1), and shall not be considered members for purposes 
    of any other provision of this Act.
        ``(2) Ex officio members.--The following individuals shall 
    serve as ex officio members:
            ``(A) The Archivist of the United States.
            ``(B) The Librarian of Congress.
            ``(C) The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
            ``(D) The Secretary of Education.
            ``(E) The Secretary of State.
            ``(F) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
            ``(G) The Administrator of General Services.
        ``(3) Other advisory members.--The following individuals shall 
    serve as other advisory members:
            ``(A) Four members appointed by the Secretary of Defense in 
        the following manner: One from the Navy, one from the Marine 
        Corps, one from the Army, and one from the Air Force.
            ``(B) Two members appointed by the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security in the following manner: One from the Coast Guard and 
        one from the United States Secret Service.
            ``(C) Two members appointed by the Secretary of the 
        Interior, including one from the National Parks Service.
        ``(4) Vacancies.--A vacancy in a member position under 
    paragraph (3) shall be filled in the same manner in which the 
    original appointment was made.''.
        (2) Payable rate of staff.--Section 7(c)(2) of the World War I 
    Centennial Commission Act (Public Law 112-272; 126 Stat. 2451) is 
    amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``, without regard to the provisions of chapter 
        51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United States 
        Code, relating to classification and General Schedule pay 
        rates.''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``level IV'' and 
        inserting ``level II''.
        (3) Limitation on obligation of federal funds.--
            (A) Limitation.--Section 9 of the World War I Centennial 
        Commission Act (Public Law 112-272; 126 Stat. 2453) is amended 
        to read as follows:
``SEC. 9. LIMITATION ON OBLIGATION OF FEDERAL FUNDS.
    ``No Federal funds may be obligated or expended for the 
designation, establishment, or enhancement of a memorial or 
commemorative work by the World War I Centennial Commission.''.
            (B) Conforming amendment.--Section 7(f) of the World War I 
        Centennial Commission Act (Public Law 112-272; 126 Stat. 2452) 
        is repealed.
            (C) Clerical amendment.--The item relating to section 9 in 
        the table of contents of the World War I Centennial Commission 
        Act (Public Law 112-272; 126 Stat. 2448) is amended to read as 
        follows:

    ``Sec. 9. Limitation on obligation of Federal funds.''.
SEC. 3092. MISCELLANEOUS ISSUES RELATED TO LAS VEGAS VALLEY PUBLIC LAND 
AND TULE SPRINGS FOSSIL BEDS NATIONAL MONUMENT.
    (a) Tule Springs Fossil Beds National Monument.--
        (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) Council.--The term ``Council'' means the Tule Springs 
        Fossil Beds National Monument Advisory Council established by 
        paragraph (6)(A).
            (B) County.--The term ``County'' means Clark County, 
        Nevada.
            (C) Local government.--The term ``local government'' means 
        the City of Las Vegas, City of North Las Vegas, or the County.
            (D) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the Monument developed under paragraph 
        (3)(E).
            (E) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Tule 
        Springs Fossil Beds National Monument Proposed Boundary'', 
        numbered 963/123,142, and dated December 2013.
            (F) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the Tule Springs 
        Fossil Beds National Monument established by paragraph (2)(A).
            (G) Public land.--The term ``public land'' has the meaning 
        given the term ``public lands'' in section 103 of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).
            (H) Public water agency.--The term ``public water agency'' 
        means a regional wholesale water provider that is engaged in 
        the acquisition of water on behalf of, or the delivery of water 
        to, water purveyors who are member agencies of the public water 
        agency.
            (I) Qualified electric utility.--The term ``qualified 
        electric utility'' means any public or private utility 
        determined by the Secretary to be technically and financially 
        capable of developing the high-voltage transmission facilities 
        described in paragraph (4).
            (J) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (K) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.
        (2) Establishment.--
            (A) In general.--In order to conserve, protect, interpret, 
        and enhance for the benefit of present and future generations 
        the unique and nationally important paleontological, 
        scientific, educational, and recreational resources and values 
        of the land described in this paragraph, there is established 
        in the State, subject to valid existing rights, the Tule 
        Springs Fossil Beds National Monument.
            (B) Boundaries.--The Monument shall consist of 
        approximately 22,650 acres of public land in the County 
        identified as ``Tule Springs Fossil Beds National Monument'', 
        as generally depicted on the Map.
            (C) Map; legal description.--
                (i) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date 
            of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall prepare 
            an official map and legal description of the boundaries of 
            the Monument.
                (ii) Legal effect.--The map and legal description 
            prepared under clause (i) shall have the same force and 
            effect as if included in this subsection, except that the 
            Secretary may correct any clerical or typographical errors 
            in the legal description or the map.
                (iii) Availability of map and legal description.--The 
            map and legal description prepared under clause (i) shall 
            be on file and available for public inspection in the 
            appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management and 
            the National Park Service.
            (D) Acquisition of land.--
                (i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), the Secretary 
            may acquire land or interests in land within the boundaries 
            of the Monument by donation, purchase from a willing seller 
            with donated or appropriated funds, exchange, or transfer 
            from another Federal agency.
                (ii) Limitations.--

                    (I) Acquisition of certain land.--Land or interests 
                in land that are owned by the State or a political 
                subdivision of the State may be acquired under clause 
                (i) only by donation or exchange.
                    (II) Prohibition of condemnation.--No land or 
                interest in land may be acquired under clause (i) by 
                condemnation.

            (E) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights and 
        paragraphs (4) and (5), any land within the Monument or any 
        land or interest in land that is acquired by the United States 
        for inclusion in the Monument after the date of enactment of 
        this section is withdrawn from--
                (i) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public 
            land laws;
                (ii) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; 
            and
                (iii) operation of the mineral leasing laws, geothermal 
            leasing laws, and minerals materials laws.
            (F) Relationship to clark county multi-species habitat 
        conservation plan.--
                (i) Amendment to plan.--The Secretary shall credit, on 
            an acre-for-acre basis, approximately 22,650 acres of the 
            land conserved for the Monument under this section toward 
            the development of additional non-Federal land within the 
            County through an amendment to the Clark County Multi-
            Species Habitat Conservation Plan.
                (ii) Effect on plan.--Nothing in this section otherwise 
            limits, alters, modifies, or amends the Clark County Multi-
            Species Habitat Conservation Plan.
            (G) Termination of upper las vegas wash conservation 
        transfer area.--The Upper Las Vegas Wash Conservation Transfer 
        Area established by the Record of Decision dated October 21, 
        2011, for the Upper Las Vegas Wash Conservation Transfer Area 
        Final Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement, is 
        terminated.
        (3) Administration of monument.--
            (A) Transfer of administrative jurisdiction.--
        Administrative jurisdiction over the approximately 22,650 acres 
        of public land depicted on the Map as ``Tule Springs Fossil Bed 
        National Monument'' is transferred from the Bureau of Land 
        Management to the National Park Service.
            (B) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the 
        Monument--
                (i) in a manner that conserves, protects, interprets, 
            and enhances the resources and values of the Monument; and
                (ii) in accordance with--

                    (I) this subsection;
                    (II) the provisions of laws generally applicable to 
                units of the National Park System (including the 
                National Park Service Organic Act (16 U.S.C. 1 et 
                seq.)); and
                    (III) any other applicable laws.

            (C) Buffer zones.--The establishment of the Monument shall 
        not--
                (i) lead to the creation of express or implied 
            protective perimeters or buffer zones around or over the 
            Monument;
                (ii) preclude disposal or development of public land 
            adjacent to the boundaries of the Monument, if the disposal 
            or development is consistent with other applicable law; or
                (iii) preclude an activity on, or use of, private land 
            adjacent to the boundaries of the Monument, if the activity 
            or use is consistent with other applicable law.
            (D) Air and water quality.--Nothing in this section alters 
        the standards governing air or water quality outside the 
        boundary of the Monument.
            (E) Management plan.--
                (i) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date 
            on which funds are made available to carry out this 
            subparagraph, the Secretary shall develop a management plan 
            that provides for the long-term protection and management 
            of the Monument.
                (ii) Components.--The management plan--

                    (I) shall--

                        (aa) be prepared in accordance with section 
                    12(b) of the National Park System General 
                    Authorities Act (16 U.S.C. 1a-7(b)); and
                        (bb) consistent with this subsection and the 
                    purposes of the Monument, allow for continued 
                    scientific research at the Monument; and

                    (II) may--

                        (aa) incorporate any appropriate decisions 
                    contained in an existing management or activity 
                    plan for the land designated as the Monument under 
                    paragraph (2)(A); and
                        (bb) use information developed in any study of 
                    land within, or adjacent to, the boundary of the 
                    Monument that was conducted before the date of 
                    enactment of this section.
                (iii) Public process.--In preparing the management 
            plan, the Secretary shall--

                    (I) consult with, and take into account the 
                comments and recommendations of, the Council;
                    (II) provide an opportunity for public involvement 
                in the preparation and review of the management plan, 
                including holding public meetings;
                    (III) consider public comments received as part of 
                the public review and comment process of the management 
                plan; and
                    (IV) consult with governmental and nongovernmental 
                stakeholders involved in establishing and improving the 
                regional trail system to incorporate, where 
                appropriate, trails in the Monument that link to the 
                regional trail system.

            (F) Interpretation, education, and scientific research.--
                (i) In general.--The Secretary shall provide for public 
            interpretation of, and education and scientific research 
            on, the paleontological resources of the Monument, with 
            priority given to the onsite exhibition and curation of the 
            resources, to the extent practicable.
                (ii) Cooperative agreements.--The Secretary may enter 
            into cooperative agreements with the State, political 
            subdivisions of the State, nonprofit organizations, and 
            appropriate public and private entities to carry out clause 
            (i).
        (4) Renewable energy transmission facilities.--
            (A) In general.--On receipt of a complete application from 
        a qualified electric utility, the Secretary, in accordance with 
        applicable laws (including the National Environmental Policy 
        Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and title V of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1761 et 
        seq.)), shall issue to the qualified electric utility a 400-
        foot-wide right-of-way for the construction and maintenance of 
        high-voltage transmission facilities depicted on the map 
        entitled ``North Las Vegas Valley Overview'' and dated November 
        5, 2013, as ``Renewable Energy Transmission Corridor'' if the 
        high-voltage transmission facilities do not conflict with other 
        previously authorized rights-of-way within the corridor.
            (B) Requirements.--
                (i) In general.--The high-voltage transmission 
            facilities shall--

                    (I) be used--

                        (aa) primarily, to the maximum extent 
                    practicable, for renewable energy resources; and
                        (bb) to meet reliability standards set by the 
                    North American Electric Reliability Corporation, 
                    the Western Electricity Coordinating Council, or 
                    the public utilities regulator of the State; and

                    (II) employ best management practices identified as 
                part of the compliance of the Secretary with the 
                National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
                4321 et seq.) to limit impacts on the Monument.

                (ii) Capacity.--The Secretary shall consult with the 
            qualified electric utility that is issued the right-of-way 
            under subparagraph (A) and the public utilities regulator 
            of the State to seek to maximize the capacity of the high-
            voltage transmission facilities.
            (C) Terms and conditions.--The issuance of a notice to 
        proceed on the construction of the high-voltage transmission 
        facilities within the right-of-way under subparagraph (A) shall 
        be subject to terms and conditions that the Secretary (in 
        consultation with the qualified electric utility), as part of 
        the compliance of the Secretary with the National Environmental 
        Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), determines 
        appropriate to protect and conserve the resources for which the 
        Monument is managed.
            (D) Expiration of right-of-way.--The right-of-way issued 
        under subparagraph (A) shall expire on the date that is 15 
        years after the date of enactment of this section if 
        construction of the high-voltage transmission facilities 
        described in subparagraph (A) has not been initiated by that 
        date, unless the Secretary determines that it is in the public 
        interest to continue the right-of-way.
        (5) Water conveyance facilities.--
            (A) Water conveyance facilities corridor.--
                (i) In general.--On receipt of 1 or more complete 
            applications from a public water agency and except as 
            provided in clause (ii), the Secretary, in accordance with 
            applicable laws (including the National Environmental 
            Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and title V of 
            the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
            U.S.C. 1761 et seq.)), shall issue to the public water 
            agency a 100-foot-wide right-of-way for the construction, 
            maintenance, repair, and replacement of a buried water 
            conveyance pipeline and associated facilities within the 
            ``Water Conveyance Facilities Corridor'' and the 
            ``Renewable Energy Transmission Corridor'' depicted on the 
            map entitled ``North Las Vegas Valley Overview'' and dated 
            November 5, 2013.
                (ii) Limitation.--A public water agency right-of-way 
            shall not be granted under clause (i) within the portion of 
            the Renewable Energy Transmission Corridor that is located 
            along the Moccasin Drive alignment, which is generally 
            between T. 18 S. and T. 19 S., Mount Diablo Baseline and 
            Meridian.
            (B) Buried water conveyance pipeline.--On receipt of 1 or 
        more complete applications from a unit of local government or 
        public water agency, the Secretary, in accordance with 
        applicable laws (including the National Environmental Policy 
        Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and title V of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1761 et 
        seq.)), shall issue to the unit of local government or public 
        water agency a 100-foot-wide right-of-way for the construction, 
        operation, maintenance, repair, and replacement of a buried 
        water conveyance pipeline to access the existing buried water 
        pipeline turnout facility and surge tank located in the NE\1/4\ 
        sec. 16 of T. 19 S. and R. 61 E.
            (C) Requirements.--
                (i) Best management practices.--The water conveyance 
            facilities shall employ best management practices 
            identified as part of the compliance of the Secretary with 
            the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
            4321 et seq.) to limit the impacts of the water conveyance 
            facilities on the Monument.
                (ii) Consultations.--The water conveyance facilities 
            within the ``Renewable Energy Transmission Corridor'' shall 
            be sited in consultation with the qualified electric 
            utility to limit the impacts of the water conveyance 
            facilities on the high-voltage transmission facilities.
            (D) Terms and conditions.--The issuance of a notice to 
        proceed on the construction of the water conveyance facilities 
        within the right-of-way under subparagraph (A) shall be subject 
        to any terms and conditions that the Secretary, in consultation 
        with the public water agency, as part of the compliance of the 
        Secretary with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
        (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.), determines appropriate to protect and 
        conserve the resources for which the Monument is managed.
        (6) Tule springs fossil beds national monument advisory 
    council.--
            (A) Establishment.--To provide guidance for the management 
        of the Monument, there is established the Tule Springs Fossil 
        Beds National Monument Advisory Council.
            (B) Membership.--
                (i) Composition.--The Council shall consist of 10 
            members, to be appointed by the Secretary, of whom--

                    (I) 1 member shall be a member of, or be nominated 
                by, the County Commission;
                    (II) 1 member shall be a member of, or be nominated 
                by, the city council of Las Vegas, Nevada;
                    (III) 1 member shall be a member of, or be 
                nominated by, the city council of North Las Vegas, 
                Nevada;
                    (IV) 1 member shall be a member of, or be nominated 
                by, the tribal council of the Las Vegas Paiute Tribe;
                    (V) 1 member shall be a representative of the 
                conservation community in southern Nevada;
                    (VI) 1 member shall be a representative of Nellis 
                Air Force Base;
                    (VII) 1 member shall be nominated by the State;
                    (VIII) 1 member shall reside in the County and have 
                a background that reflects the purposes for which the 
                Monument was established; and
                    (IX) 2 members shall reside in the County or 
                adjacent counties, both of whom shall have experience 
                in the field of paleontology, obtained through higher 
                education, experience, or both.

                (ii) Initial appointment.--Not later than 180 days 
            after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary 
            shall appoint the initial members of the Council in 
            accordance with clause (i).
            (C) Duties of council.--The Council shall advise the 
        Secretary with respect to the preparation and implementation of 
        the management plan.
            (D) Compensation.--Members of the Council shall receive no 
        compensation for serving on the Council.
            (E) Chairperson.--
                (i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), the Council 
            shall elect a Chairperson from among the members of the 
            Council.
                (ii) Limitation.--The Chairperson shall not be a member 
            of a Federal or State agency.
                (iii) Term.--The term of the Chairperson shall be 3 
            years.
            (F) Term of members.--
                (i) In general.--The term of a member of the Council 
            shall be 3 years.
                (ii) Successors.--Notwithstanding the expiration of a 
            3-year term of a member of the Council, a member may 
            continue to serve on the Council until--

                    (I) the member is reappointed by the Secretary; or
                    (II) a successor is appointed.

            (G) Vacancies.--
                (i) In general.--A vacancy on the Council shall be 
            filled in the same manner in which the original appointment 
            was made.
                (ii) Appointment for remainder of term.--A member 
            appointed to fill a vacancy on the Council--

                    (I) shall serve for the remainder of the term for 
                which the predecessor was appointed; and
                    (II) may be nominated for a subsequent term.

            (H) Termination.--Unless an extension is jointly 
        recommended by the Director of the National Park Service and 
        the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, the Council 
        shall terminate on the date that is 6 years after the date of 
        enactment of this section.
        (7) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the land 
    identified on the Map as ``BLM Withdrawn Lands'' is withdrawn 
    from--
            (A) entry under the public land laws;
            (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (C) operation of the mineral leasing, geothermal leasing, 
        and mineral materials laws.
    (b) Addition of Land to Red Rock Canyon National Conservation 
Area.--
        (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) Conservation area.--The term ``Conservation Area'' 
        means the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
        established by the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
        Establishment Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 460ccc et seq.).
            (B) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``North 
        Las Vegas Valley Overview'' and dated November 5, 2013.
            (C) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management.
        (2) Addition of land to conservation area.--
            (A) In general.--The Conservation Area is expanded to 
        include the land depicted on the Map as ``Additions to Red Rock 
        NCA''.
            (B) Management plan.--Not later than 2 years after the date 
        on which the land is acquired, the Secretary shall update the 
        management plan for the Conservation Area to reflect the 
        management requirements of the acquired land.
            (C) Map and legal description.--
                (i) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date 
            of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall finalize 
            the legal description of the parcel to be conveyed under 
            this subsection.
                (ii) Minor errors.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
            error in--

                    (I) the Map; or
                    (II) the legal description.

                (iii) Availability.--The Map and legal description 
            shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
            appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (c) Conveyance of Bureau of Land Management Land to North Las 
Vegas.--
        (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``North 
        Las Vegas Valley Overview'' and dated November 5, 2013.
            (B) North las vegas.--The term ``North Las Vegas'' means 
        the city of North Las Vegas, Nevada.
            (C) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management.
        (2) Conveyance.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
    enactment of this section and subject to valid existing rights, 
    upon the request of North Las Vegas, the Secretary shall convey to 
    North Las Vegas, without consideration, all right, title, and 
    interest of the United States in and to the land described in 
    paragraph (3).
        (3) Description of land.--The land referred to in paragraph (2) 
    consists of the land managed by the Bureau of Land Management 
    described on the Map as the ``North Las Vegas Job Creation Zone'' 
    (including the interests in the land).
        (4) Map and legal description.--
            (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Secretary shall finalize the 
        legal description of the parcel to be conveyed under this 
        subsection.
            (B) Minor errors.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        error in--
                (i) the Map; or
                (ii) the legal description.
            (C) Availability.--The Map and legal description shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
        (5) Use of land for nonresidential development.--
            (A) In general.--North Las Vegas may sell any portion of 
        the land described in paragraph (3) for nonresidential 
        development.
            (B) Method of sale.--The sale of land under subparagraph 
        (A) shall be carried out--
                (i) through a competitive bidding process; and
                (ii) for not less than fair market value.
            (C) Fair market value.--The Secretary shall determine the 
        fair market value of the land under subparagraph (B)(ii) based 
        on an appraisal that is performed in accordance with--
                (i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
            Acquisitions;
                (ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
            Practices; and
                (iii) any other applicable law (including regulations).
            (D) Disposition of proceeds.--The gross proceeds from the 
        sale of land under subparagraph (A) shall be distributed in 
        accordance with section 4(e) of the Southern Nevada Public Land 
        Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 112 Stat. 2345; 116 
        Stat. 2007; 117 Stat. 1317; 118 Stat. 2414; 120 Stat. 3045).
        (6) Use of land for recreation or other public purposes.--
            (A) In general.--North Las Vegas may retain a portion of 
        the land described in paragraph (3) for public recreation or 
        other public purposes consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 
        (commonly known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') 
        (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.) by providing written notice of the 
        election to the Secretary.
            (B) Revocation.--If North Las Vegas retains land for public 
        recreation or other public purposes under subparagraph (A), 
        North Las Vegas may--
                (i) revoke that election; and
                (ii) sell the land in accordance with paragraph (5).
        (7) Administrative costs.--North Las Vegas shall pay all 
    appraisal costs, survey costs, and other administrative costs 
    necessary for the preparation and completion of any patents for, 
    and transfers of title to, the land described in paragraph (3).
        (8) Reversion.--
            (A) In general.--If any parcel of land described in 
        paragraph (3) is not conveyed for nonresidential development 
        under this subsection or reserved for recreation or other 
        public purposes under paragraph (6) by the date that is 30 
        years after the date of enactment of this section, the parcel 
        of land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to 
        the United States.
            (B) Inconsistent use.--If North Las Vegas uses any parcel 
        of land described in paragraph (3) in a manner that is 
        inconsistent with this subsection--
                (i) at the discretion of the Secretary, the parcel 
            shall revert to the United States; or
                (ii) if the Secretary does not make an election under 
            clause (i), North Las Vegas shall sell the parcel of land 
            in accordance with this subsection.
    (d) Conveyance of Bureau of Land Management Land to Las Vegas.--
        (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) Las vegas.--The term ``Las Vegas'' means the city of 
        Las Vegas, Nevada.
            (B) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``North 
        Las Vegas Valley Overview'' and dated November 5, 2013.
            (C) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Land Management.
        (2) Conveyance.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
    enactment of this section, subject to valid existing rights, and 
    notwithstanding the land use planning requirements of sections 202 
    and 203 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
    U.S.C. 1712, 1713), the Secretary shall convey to Las Vegas, 
    without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United 
    States in and to the land described in paragraph (3).
        (3) Description of land.--The land referred to in paragraph (2) 
    consists of land managed by the Bureau of Land Management described 
    on the Map as ``Las Vegas Job Creation Zone'' (including interests 
    in the land).
        (4) Map and legal description.--
            (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Secretary shall finalize the 
        legal description of the parcel to be conveyed under this 
        subsection.
            (B) Minor errors.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        error in--
                (i) the Map; or
                (ii) the legal description.
            (C) Availability.--The Map and legal description shall be 
        on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
        offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
        (5) Use of land.--
            (A) In general.--Las Vegas may sell any portion of the land 
        described in paragraph (3) for nonresidential development.
            (B) Method of sale.--The sale of land under subparagraph 
        (A) shall be carried out, after consultation with the Las Vegas 
        Paiute Tribe--
                (i) through a competitive bidding process; and
                (ii) for not less than fair market value.
            (C) Fair market value.--The Secretary shall determine the 
        fair market value of the land under subparagraph (B)(ii) based 
        on an appraisal that is performed in accordance with--
                (i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
            Acquisitions;
                (ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal 
            Practices; and
                (iii) any other applicable law (including regulations).
            (D) Disposition of proceeds.--The gross proceeds from the 
        sale of land under subparagraph (A) shall be distributed in 
        accordance with section 4(e) of the Southern Nevada Public Land 
        Management Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 112 Stat. 2345; 116 
        Stat. 2007; 117 Stat. 1317; 118 Stat. 2414; 120 Stat. 3045).
        (6) Use of land for recreation or other public purposes.--
            (A) In general.--Las Vegas may retain a portion of the land 
        described in paragraph (3) for public recreation or other 
        public purposes consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 
        (commonly known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') 
        (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.) by providing written notice of the 
        election to the Secretary.
            (B) Revocation.--If Las Vegas retains land for public 
        recreation or other public purposes under subparagraph (A), Las 
        Vegas may--
                (i) revoke that election; and
                (ii) sell the land in accordance with paragraph (5).
        (7) Administrative costs.--Las Vegas shall pay all appraisal 
    costs, survey costs, and other administrative costs necessary for 
    the preparation and completion of any patents for, and transfers of 
    title to, the land described in paragraph (3).
        (8) Reversion.--
            (A) In general.--If any parcel of land described in 
        paragraph (3) is not conveyed for nonresidential development 
        under this subsection or reserved for recreation or other 
        public purposes under paragraph (6) by the date that is 30 
        years after the date of enactment of this section, the parcel 
        of land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert to 
        the United States.
            (B) Inconsistent use.--If Las Vegas uses any parcel of land 
        described in paragraph (3) in a manner that is inconsistent 
        with this subsection--
                (i) at the discretion of the Secretary, the parcel 
            shall revert to the United States; or
                (ii) if the Secretary does not make an election under 
            clause (i), Las Vegas shall sell the parcel of land in 
            accordance with this subsection.
    (e) Expansion of Conveyance to Las Vegas Metropolitan Police 
Department.--Section 703 of the Clark County Conservation of Public 
Land and Natural Resources Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-282; 116 Stat. 
2013) is amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
following: ``and, subject to valid existing rights, the parcel of land 
identified as `Las Vegas Police Shooting Range' on the map entitled 
`North Las Vegas Valley Overview' and dated November 5, 2013''.
    (f) Spring Mountains National Recreation Area Withdrawal.--Section 
8 of the Spring Mountains National Recreation Area Act (16 U.S.C. 
460hhh-6) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``for lands described'' and 
    inserting ``as provided''; and
        (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Exceptions.--
        ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding subsection (a), W\1/2\E\1/2\ 
    and W\1/2\ sec. 27, T. 23 S., R. 58 E., Mt. Diablo Meridian is not 
    subject to withdrawal under that subsection.
        ``(2) Effect of entry under public land laws.--Notwithstanding 
    paragraph (1) of subsection (a), the following are not subject to 
    withdrawal under that paragraph:
            ``(A) Any Federal land in the Recreation Area that 
        qualifies for conveyance under Public Law 97-465 (commonly 
        known as the `Small Tracts Act') (16 U.S.C. 521c et seq.), 
        which, notwithstanding section 7 of that Act (16 U.S.C. 521i), 
        may be conveyed under that Act.
            ``(B) Any Federal land in the Recreation Area that the 
        Secretary determines to be appropriate for conveyance by 
        exchange for non-Federal land within the Recreation Area under 
        authorities generally providing for the exchange of National 
        Forest System land.''.
    (g) Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 
Amendments.--Section 4 of the Southern Nevada Public Land Management 
Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-263; 112 Stat. 2344; 116 Stat. 2007) is 
amended--
        (1) in the first sentence of subsection (a), by striking 
    ``dated October 1, 2002'' and inserting ``dated September 17, 
    2012''; and
        (2) in subsection (g), by adding at the end the following:
        ``(5) Notwithstanding paragraph (4), subject to paragraphs (1) 
    through (3), Clark County may convey to a unit of local government 
    or regional governmental entity, without consideration, land 
    located within the Airport Environs Overlay District, as identified 
    in the Cooperative Management Agreement described in section 3(3) 
    of the Southern Nevada Public Land Management Act of 1998 (Public 
    Law 105-263; 112 Stat. 2343), if the land is used for a water or 
    wastewater treatment facility or any other public purpose 
    consistent with uses allowed under the Act of June 14, 1926 
    (commonly known as the `Recreation and Public Purposes Act') (43 
    U.S.C. 869 et seq.).''.
    (h) Conveyance of Land to the Nevada System of Higher Education.--
        (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) Board of regents.--The term ``Board of Regents'' means 
        the Board of Regents of the Nevada System of Higher Education.
            (B) Campuses.--The term ``Campuses'' means the Great Basin 
        College, College of Southern Nevada, and University of Las 
        Vegas, Nevada, campuses.
            (C) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means--
                (i) the approximately 40 acres to be conveyed for the 
            College of Southern Nevada, identified as ``Parcel to be 
            Conveyed'', as generally depicted on the map entitled 
            ``College of Southern Nevada Land Conveyance'' and dated 
            June 26, 2012;
                (ii) the approximately 2,085 acres to be conveyed for 
            the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, identified as ``UNLV 
            North Campus'', as generally depicted on the map entitled 
            ``North Las Vegas Valley Overview'' and dated November 5, 
            2013; and
                (iii) the approximately 285 acres to be conveyed for 
            the Great Basin College, identified as ``Parcel to be 
            Conveyed'', as generally depicted on the map entitled 
            ``College of Southern Nevada Land Conveyance'' and dated 
            June 26, 2012.
            (D) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (E) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.
            (F) System.--The term ``System'' means the Nevada System of 
        Higher Education.
        (2) Conveyances of federal land to system.--
            (A) Conveyances.--Notwithstanding section 202 of the 
        Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712) 
        and section 1(c) of the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as 
        the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869(c)), 
        and subject to all valid existing rights and such terms and 
        conditions as the Secretary determines to be necessary, the 
        Secretary shall--
                (i) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment 
            of this section, convey to the System, without 
            consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United 
            States in and to--

                    (I) the Federal land identified on the map entitled 
                ``Great Basin College Land Conveyance'' and dated June 
                26, 2012, for the Great Basin College; and
                    (II) the Federal land identified on the map 
                entitled ``College of Southern Nevada Land Conveyance'' 
                and dated June 26, 2012, for the College of Southern 
                Nevada, subject to the requirement that, as a 
                precondition of the conveyance, the Board of Regents 
                shall, by mutual assent, enter into a binding 
                development agreement with the City of Las Vegas that--

                        (aa) provides for the orderly development of 
                    the Federal land to be conveyed under this item; 
                    and
                        (bb) complies with State law; and
                (ii) convey to the System, without consideration, all 
            right, title, and interest of the United States in and to 
            the Federal land identified on the map entitled ``North Las 
            Vegas Valley Overview'' and dated November 5, 2013, for the 
            University of Nevada, Las Vegas, if the area identified as 
            ``Potential Utility Schedule'' on the map is reserved for 
            use for a potential 400-foot-wide utility corridor of 
            certain rights-of-way for transportation and public 
            utilities.
            (B) Conditions.--
                (i) In general.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
            subparagraph (A), the Board of Regents shall agree in 
            writing--

                    (I) to pay any administrative costs associated with 
                the conveyance, including the costs of any 
                environmental, wildlife, cultural, or historical 
                resources studies;
                    (II) to use the Federal land conveyed for 
                educational and recreational purposes; and
                    (III) to release and indemnify the United States 
                from any claims or liabilities that may arise from uses 
                carried out on the Federal land on or before the date 
                of enactment of this section by the United States or 
                any person.

                (ii) Agreement with nellis air force base.--

                    (I) In general.--The Federal land conveyed to the 
                System under subparagraph (A)(ii) shall be used in 
                accordance with the agreement entitled the 
                ``Cooperative Interlocal Agreement between the Board of 
                Regents of the Nevada System of Higher Education, on 
                Behalf of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, and the 
                99th Air Base Wing, Nellis Air Force Base, Nevada'' and 
                dated June 19, 2009.
                    (II) Modifications.--Any modifications to the 
                agreement described in subclause (I) or any related 
                master plan shall require the mutual assent of the 
                parties to the agreement.
                    (III) Limitation.--In no case shall the use of the 
                Federal land conveyed under subparagraph (A)(ii) 
                compromise the national security mission or navigation 
                rights of Nellis Air Force Base.

            (C) Use of federal land.--The System may use the Federal 
        land conveyed under subparagraph (A) for any public purposes 
        consistent with uses allowed under the Act of June 14, 1926 
        (commonly known as the ``Recreation and Public Purposes Act'') 
        (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
            (D) Reversion.--
                (i) In general.--If the Federal land or any portion of 
            the Federal land conveyed under subparagraph (A) ceases to 
            be used for the System, the Federal land, or any portion of 
            the Federal land shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, 
            revert to the United States.
                (ii) University of nevada, las vegas.--If the System 
            fails to complete the first building or show progression 
            toward development of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas 
            campus on the applicable parcels of Federal land by the 
            date that is 50 years after the date of receipt of 
            certification of acceptable remediation of environmental 
            conditions, the parcels of the Federal land described in 
            paragraph (1)(C)(ii) shall, at the discretion of the 
            Secretary, revert to the United States.
                (iii) College of southern nevada.--If the System fails 
            to complete the first building or show progression toward 
            development of the College of Southern Nevada campus on the 
            applicable parcels of Federal land by the date that is 12 
            years after the date of conveyance of the applicable 
            parcels of Federal land to the College of Southern Nevada, 
            the parcels of the Federal land described in paragraph 
            (1)(C)(i) shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, revert 
            to the United States.
    (i) Land Conveyance for Southern Nevada Supplemental Airport.--
        (1) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (A) flood mitigation infrastructure is critical to the safe 
        and uninterrupted operation of the proposed Southern Nevada 
        Supplemental Airport authorized by the Ivanpah Valley Airport 
        Public Lands Transfer Act (Public Law 106-362; 114 Stat. 1404); 
        and
            (B) through proper engineering, the land described in this 
        subsection for flood mitigation infrastructure for the Southern 
        Nevada Supplemental Airport may be consistent with the role of 
        the Bureau of Land Management--
                (i) to protect and prevent irreparable damage to--

                    (I) important historic, cultural, or scenic values;
                    (II) fish and wildlife resources; or
                    (III) other natural systems or processes; or

                (ii) to protect life and safety from natural hazards in 
            the County and nearby areas.
        (2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) County.--The term ``County'' means Clark County, 
        Nevada.
            (B) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Land 
        Conveyance for Southern Nevada Supplemental Airport'' and dated 
        June 26, 2012.
            (C) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
        (3) Land conveyance.--
            (A) Authorization of conveyance.--
                (i) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date 
            described in subparagraph (B), subject to valid existing 
            rights and subparagraph (C), and notwithstanding the land 
            use planning requirements of sections 202 and 203 of the 
            Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
            1712, 1713), the Secretary shall convey to the County, 
            without consideration, all right, title, and interest of 
            the United States in and to the land described in paragraph 
            (4), subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary 
            determines to be necessary.
                (ii) Costs.--The County shall be responsible for all 
            costs associated with the conveyance under clause (i).
            (B) Date on which conveyance may be made.--The Secretary 
        shall not make the conveyance described in subparagraph (A) 
        until the later of the date on which the Administrator of the 
        Federal Aviation Administration has--
                (i) approved an airport layout plan for an airport to 
            be located in the Ivanpah Valley; and
                (ii) with respect to the construction and operation of 
            an airport on the site conveyed to the County pursuant to 
            section 2(a) of the Ivanpah Valley Airport Public Lands 
            Transfer Act (Public Law 106-362; 114 Stat. 1404), issued a 
            record of decision after the preparation of an 
            environmental impact statement or similar analysis required 
            under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
            U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
            (C) Reservation of mineral rights.--In conveying the public 
        land under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall reserve the 
        mineral estate, except for purposes related to flood mitigation 
        (including removal from aggregate flood events).
            (D) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
        public land to be conveyed under subparagraph (A) is withdrawn 
        from--
                (i) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; 
            and
                (ii) operation of the mineral leasing and geothermal 
            leasing laws.
            (E) Use.--The public land conveyed under subparagraph (A) 
        shall be used for the development of flood mitigation 
        infrastructure for the Southern Nevada Supplemental Airport.
            (F) Reversion and reentry.--
                (i) In general.--If the land conveyed to the County 
            under the Ivanpah Valley Airport Public Lands Transfer Act 
            (Public Law 106-362; 114 Stat. 1404) reverts to the United 
            States, the land conveyed to the County under this 
            subsection shall revert, at the option of the Secretary, to 
            the United States.
                (ii) Use of land.--If the Secretary determines that the 
            County is not using the land conveyed under this subsection 
            for a purpose described in subparagraph (D), all right, 
            title, and interest of the County in and to the land shall 
            revert, at the option of the Secretary, to the United 
            States.
        (4) Description of land.--The land referred to in paragraph (3) 
    consists of the approximately 2,320 acres of land managed by the 
    Bureau of Land Management and described on the Map as the 
    ``Conveyance Area''.
        (5) Map and legal description.--
            (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Secretary shall prepare an 
        official legal description and map of the parcel to be conveyed 
        under this subsection.
            (B) Minor errors.--The Secretary may correct any minor 
        error in--
                (i) the map prepared under subparagraph (A); or
                (ii) the legal description.
            (C) Availability.--The map prepared under subparagraph (A) 
        and legal description shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (j) Nellis Dunes Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area.--
        (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) City.--The term ``City'' means the city of North Las 
        Vegas, Nevada.
            (B) Clark county off-highway vehicle recreation park.--The 
        term ``Clark County Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Park'' means 
        the approximately 960 acres of land identified on the Map as 
        ``Clark County Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Park''.
            (C) County.--The term ``County'' means Clark County, 
        Nevada.
            (D) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled ``Nellis 
        Dunes OHV Recreation Area'' and dated December 17, 2013.
            (E) Nellis dunes off-highway recreation area.--The term 
        ``Nellis Dunes Off-Highway Recreation Area'' means the 
        approximately 10,035 acres of land identified on the Map as 
        ``Nellis Dunes OHV Recreation Area''.
            (F) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (G) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Nevada.
        (2) Conveyance of federal land to county.--
            (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Secretary shall convey to the 
        County, subject to valid existing rights and subparagraph (B), 
        without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the 
        United States in and to the Clark County Off-Highway Vehicle 
        Recreation Park.
            (B) Reservation of mineral estate.--In conveying the 
        parcels of Federal land under subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
        shall reserve the mineral estate, except for purposes related 
        to flood mitigation (including removal from aggregate flood 
        events).
            (C) Use of conveyed land.--
                (i) In general.--The parcels of land conveyed under 
            subparagraph (A) may be used by the County for any public 
            purposes described in clause (ii), consistent with the Act 
            of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the ``Recreation and 
            Public Purposes Act'') (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
                (ii) Authorized uses.--The land conveyed under 
            subparagraph (A)--

                    (I) shall be used by the County--

                        (aa) to provide a suitable location for the 
                    establishment of a centralized off-road vehicle 
                    recreation park in the County;
                        (bb) to provide the public with opportunities 
                    for off-road vehicle recreation, including a 
                    location for races, competitive events, training 
                    and other commercial services that directly support 
                    a centralized off-road vehicle recreation area and 
                    County park;
                        (cc) to provide a designated area and 
                    facilities that would discourage unauthorized use 
                    of off-highway vehicles in areas that have been 
                    identified by the Federal Government, State 
                    government, or County government as containing 
                    environmentally sensitive land; and

                    (II) shall not be disposed of by the County.

                (iii) Reversion.--If the County ceases to use any 
            parcel of land conveyed under subparagraph (A) for the 
            purposes described in clause (ii)--

                    (I) title to the parcel shall revert to the 
                Secretary, at the option of the Secretary; and
                    (II) the County shall be responsible for any 
                reclamation necessary to revert the parcel to the 
                United States.

                (iv) Management plan.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
            and the County, may develop a special management plan for 
            the land conveyed under subparagraph (A)--

                    (I) to enhance public safety and safe off-highway 
                vehicle recreation use in the Nellis Dunes Recreation 
                Area;
                    (II) to ensure compatible development with the 
                mission requirements of the Nellis Air Force Base; and
                    (III) to avoid and mitigate known public health 
                risks associated with off-highway vehicle use in the 
                Nellis Dunes Recreation Area.

            (D) Agreement with nellis air force base.--
                (i) In general.--Before the Federal land may be 
            conveyed to the County under subparagraph (A), the Clark 
            County Board of Commissioners and Nellis Air Force Base 
            shall enter into an interlocal agreement for the Federal 
            land and the Nellis Dunes Recreation Area--

                    (I) to enhance safe off-highway recreation use; and
                    (II) to ensure that development of the Federal land 
                is consistent with the long-term mission requirements 
                of Nellis Air Force Base.

                (ii) Limitation.--The use of the Federal land conveyed 
            under subparagraph (A) shall not compromise the national 
            security mission of Nellis Air Force Base.
            (E) Additional terms and conditions.--With respect to the 
        conveyance of Federal land under subparagraph (A), the 
        Secretary may require such additional terms and conditions as 
        the Secretary considers to be appropriate to protect the 
        interests of the United States.
        (3) Designation of nellis dunes off-highway vehicle recreation 
    area.--
            (A) In general.--The approximately 10,035 acres of land 
        identified on the Map as the ``Nellis Dunes OHV Recreation 
        Area'' shall be known and designated as the ``Nellis Dunes Off-
        Highway Vehicle Recreation Area''.
            (B) Management plan.--The Secretary may develop a special 
        management plan for the Nellis Dunes Off-Highway Recreation 
        Area to enhance the safe use of off-highway vehicles for 
        recreational purposes.
    (k) Withdrawal and Reservation of Land for Nellis Air Force Base 
Expansion.--
        (1) Withdrawals.--Section 3011(b) of the Military Lands 
    Withdrawal Act of 1999 (Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 886) is 
    amended--
            (A) in paragraph (4)--
                (i) by striking ``comprise approximately'' and 
            inserting the following: ``comprise--
            ``(A) approximately'';
                (ii) by striking the period at the end and inserting a 
            semicolon; and
                (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(B) approximately 710 acres of land in Clark County, 
        Nevada, identified as `Addition to Nellis Air Force Base' on 
        the map entitled `Nellis Dunes Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation 
        Area' and dated June 26, 2012; and
            ``(C) approximately 410 acres of land in Clark County, 
        Nevada, identified as `Addition to Nellis Air Force Base' on 
        the map entitled `North Las Vegas Valley Overview' and dated 
        November 5, 2013.''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(6) Existing mineral materials contracts.--
            ``(A) Applicability.--Section 3022 shall not apply to any 
        mineral material resource authorized for sale by the Secretary 
        of the Interior under a valid contract for the duration of the 
        contract.
            ``(B) Access.--Notwithstanding any other provision of this 
        subtitle, the Secretary of the Air Force shall allow adequate 
        and reasonable access to mineral material resources authorized 
        for sale by the Secretary of the Interior under a valid 
        contract for the duration of the contract.''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 3022 of the Military Lands 
    Withdrawal Act of 1999 (Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 897) is 
    amended by striking ``section 3011(b)(5)(B)'' and inserting 
    ``paragraphs (5)(B) and (6) of section 3011(b)''.
    (l) Military Overflights.--
        (1) Findings.--Congress finds that military aircraft testing 
    and training activities in the State of Nevada--
            (A) are an important part of the national defense system of 
        the United States; and
            (B) are essential in order to secure an enduring and viable 
        national defense system for the current and future generations 
        of people of the United States.
        (2) Overflights.--Nothing in this section restricts or 
    precludes any military overflight, including--
            (A) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        Federal land;
            (B) flight testing and evaluation; and
            (C) the designation or creation of new units of special 
        airspace, or the use or establishment of military flight 
        training routes, over--
                (i) the Tule Springs Fossil Beds National Monument 
            established by subsection (a)(2)(A); or
                (ii) the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation Area 
            established by the Red Rock Canyon National Conservation 
            Area Establishment Act of 1990 (16 U.S.C. 460ccc et seq.) 
            (as modified by subsection (b)).
SEC. 3093. NATIONAL DESERT STORM AND DESERT SHIELD MEMORIAL.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Association.--The term ``Association'' means the National 
    Desert Storm Memorial Association, a corporation organized under 
    the laws of the State of Arkansas and described in section 
    501(c)(3) and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the 
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
        (2) Memorial.--The term ``memorial'' means the National Desert 
    Storm and Desert Shield Memorial authorized to be established under 
    subsection (b).
    (b) Memorial to Commemorate.--
        (1) Authorization to establish commemorative work.--The 
    Association may establish the National Desert Storm and Desert 
    Shield Memorial as a commemorative work, on Federal land in the 
    District of Columbia to commemorate and honor those who, as a 
    member of the Armed Forces, served on active duty in support of 
    Operation Desert Storm or Operation Desert Shield.
        (2) Compliance with standards for commemorative works act.--The 
    establishment of the commemorative work shall be in accordance with 
    chapter 89 of title 40, United States Code (commonly known as the 
    ``Commemorative Works Act'').
        (3) Use of federal funds prohibited.--Federal funds may not be 
    used to pay any expense of the establishment of the memorial. The 
    Association shall be solely responsible for acceptance of 
    contributions for, and payment of the expenses of, the 
    establishment of the memorial.
        (4) Deposit of excess funds.--
            (A) In general.--If upon payment of all expenses for the 
        establishment of the memorial (including the maintenance and 
        preservation amount required by section 8906(b)(1) of title 40, 
        United States Code), there remains a balance of funds received 
        for the establishment of the commemorative work, the 
        Association shall transmit the amount of the balance to the 
        Secretary of the Interior for deposit in the account provided 
        for in section 8906(b)(3) of title 40, United States Code.
            (B) On expiration of authority.--If upon expiration of the 
        authority for the commemorative work under section 8903(e) of 
        title 40, United States Code, there remains a balance of funds 
        received for the establishment of the commemorative work, the 
        Association shall transmit the balance to a separate account 
        with the National Park Foundation for memorials, to be 
        available to the Secretary of the Interior or the Administrator 
        (as appropriate) following the process provided in section 
        8906(b)(4) of title 40, United States Code, for accounts 
        established under section 8906(b)(2) or (3) of title 40, United 
        States Code.
SEC. 3094. EXTENSION OF LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF 
COMMEMORATIVE WORK IN HONOR OF FORMER PRESIDENT JOHN ADAMS.
    Section 1 of Public Law 107-62 (40 U.S.C. 8903 note), as amended by 
Public Law 111-169, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``2013'' and inserting ``2020'' in subsection 
    (c); and
        (2) by amending subsection (e) to read as follows:
    ``(e) Deposit of Excess Funds for Established Memorial.--
        ``(1) If upon payment of all expenses for the establishment of 
    the memorial (including the maintenance and preservation amount 
    required by section 8906(b)(1) of title 40, United States Code), 
    there remains a balance of funds received for the establishment of 
    the commemorative work, the Adams Memorial Foundation shall 
    transmit the amount of the balance to the account provided for in 
    section 8906(b)(3) of title 40, United States Code.
        ``(2) If upon expiration of the authority for the commemorative 
    work under section 8903(e) of title 40, United States Code, there 
    remains a balance of funds received for the establishment of the 
    commemorative work, the Adams Memorial Foundation shall transmit 
    the amount of the balance to a separate account with the National 
    Park Foundation for memorials, to be available to the Secretary of 
    the Interior or the Administrator (as appropriate) following the 
    process provided for in section 8906(b)(4) of title 40, United 
    States Code, for accounts established under section 8906(b)(2) or 
    (3) of title 40, United States Code.''.
SEC. 3095. REFINANCING OF PACIFIC COAST GROUNDFISH FISHING CAPACITY 
REDUCTION LOAN.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Commerce, upon receipt of such 
assurances as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States, shall issue a loan to refinance the 
existing debt obligation funding the fishing capacity reduction program 
for the West Coast groundfish fishery implemented under section 212 of 
the Department of Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 
2003 (title II of division B of Public Law 108-7; 117 Stat. 80).
    (b) Applicable Law.--Except as otherwise provided in this section, 
the Secretary shall issue the loan under this section in accordance 
with subsections (b) through (e) of section 312 of the Magnuson-Stevens 
Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1861a) and sections 
53702 and 53735 of title 46, United States Code.
    (c) Loan Term.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 53735(c)(4) of title 
    46, United States Code, a loan under this section shall have a 
    maturity that expires at the end of the 45-year period beginning on 
    the date of issuance of the loan.
        (2) Extension.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1) and if there is 
    an outstanding balance on the loan after the period described in 
    paragraph (1), a loan under this section shall have a maturity of 
    45 years or until the loan is repaid in full.
    (d) Limitation on Fee Amount.--Notwithstanding section 312(d)(2)(B) 
of the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 
U.S.C. 1861a(d)(2)(B)), the fee established by the Secretary with 
respect to a loan under this section shall not exceed 3 percent of the 
ex-vessel value of the harvest from each fishery for where the loan is 
issued.
    (e) Interest Rate.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 53702(b)(2) of title 
    46, United States Code, the annual rate of interest an obligor 
    shall pay on a direct loan obligation under this section is the 
    percent the Secretary must pay as interest to borrow from the 
    Treasury the funds to make the loan.
        (2) Subloans.--Each subloan under the loan authorized by this 
    section--
            (A) shall receive the interest rate described in paragraph 
        (1); and
            (B) may be paid off at any time notwithstanding subsection 
        (c)(1).
    (f) Ex-Vessel Landing Fee.--
        (1) Calculations and accuracy.--The Secretary shall set the ex-
    vessel landing fee to be collected for payment of the loan under 
    this section--
            (A) as low as possible, based on recent landings value in 
        the fishery, to meet the requirements of loan repayment;
            (B) upon issuance of the loan in accordance with paragraph 
        (2); and
            (C) on a regular interval not to exceed every 5 years 
        beginning on the date of issuance of the loan.
        (2) Deadline for initial ex-vessel landings fee calculation.--
    Not later than 60 days after the date of issuance of the loan under 
    this section, the Secretary shall recalculate the ex-vessel landing 
    fee based on the most recent value of the fishery.
    (g) Authorization.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Commerce to carry out this section an amount equal to 1 
percent of the amount of the loan authorized under this section for 
purposes of the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et 
seq.).
SEC. 3096. PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF TAXES.
    For payments in lieu of taxes under chapter 69 of title 31, United 
States Code, which shall be available without further appropriation to 
the Secretary of the Interior--
        (1) $33,000,000 for fiscal year 2015; and
        (2) $37,000,000 to be available for obligation and payment 
    beginning on October 1, 2015.
Funds available for obligation and payment under paragraph (2) shall be 
paid in October 2015.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

          Subtitle A--National Security Programs Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.

    Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Design and use of prototypes of nuclear weapons for 
          intelligence purposes.
Sec. 3112. Plutonium pit production capacity.
Sec. 3113. Life-cycle cost estimates of certain atomic energy defense 
          capital assets.
Sec. 3114. Expansion of requirement for independent cost estimates on 
          life extension programs and new nuclear facilities.
Sec. 3115. Definition of baseline and threshold for stockpile life 
          extension project.
Sec. 3116. Authorized personnel levels of National Nuclear Security 
          Administration.
Sec. 3117. Cost estimation and program evaluation by National Nuclear 
          Security Administration.
Sec. 3118. Cost containment for Uranium Capabilities Replacement 
          Project.
Sec. 3119. Production of nuclear warhead for long-range standoff weapon.
Sec. 3120. Disposition of weapons-usable plutonium.
Sec. 3121. Limitation on availability of funds for Office of the 
          Administrator for Nuclear Security.
Sec. 3122. Limitation on availability of funds for certain 
          nonproliferation activities between the United States and the 
          Russian Federation.
Sec. 3123. Identification of amounts required for uranium technology 
          sustainment in budget materials for fiscal year 2016.

                      Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

Sec. 3131. Analysis and report on W88 Alt 370 program high explosives 
          options.
Sec. 3132. Analysis of existing facilities and sense of Congress with 
          respect to plutonium strategy.
Sec. 3133. Plan for verification and monitoring of proliferation of 
          nuclear weapons and fissile material.
Sec. 3134. Comments of Administrator for Nuclear Security and Chairman 
          of Nuclear Weapons Council on final report of Congressional 
          Advisory Panel on the Governance of the Nuclear Security 
          Enterprise.

                        Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 3141. Establishment of Advisory Board on Toxic Substances and 
          Worker Health; extension of authority of Office of Ombudsman 
          for Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation 
          Program.
Sec. 3142. Technical corrections to Atomic Energy Defense Act.
Sec. 3143. Technical corrections to National Nuclear Security 
          Administration Act.
Sec. 3144. Technology Commercialization Fund.

         Subtitle A--National Security Programs Authorizations

SEC. 3101. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2015 for 
the activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration in 
carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 
4701.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out new plant projects for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration as follows:
        Project 15-D-613, Emergency Operations Center, Y-12 National 
    Security Complex, Oak Ridge, Tennessee, $2,000,000.
        Project 15-D-612, Emergency Operations Center, Lawrence 
    Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California, $2,000,000.
        Project 15-D-611, Emergency Operations Center, Sandia National 
    Laboratories, Albuquerque, New Mexico, $4,000,000.
        Project 15-D-302, TA-55 Reinvestment Project Phase III, Los 
    Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, $16,062,000.
        Project 15-D-301, High Explosive Science and Engineering 
    Facility, Pantex Plant, Amarillo, Texas, $11,800,000.
        Project 15-D-904, Overpack Storage Expansion 3, Naval Reactors 
    Facility, Idaho, $400,000.
        Project 15-D-903, Fire System Upgrade, Knolls Atomic Power 
    Laboratory, Schenectady, New York, $600,000.
        Project 15-D-902, Engine Room Team Trainer Facility, Kesselring 
    Site, West Milton, New York, $1,500,000.
        Project 15-D-901, Central Office and Prototype Staff Building, 
    Kesselring Site, West Milton, New York, $24,000,000.
SEC. 3102. DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2015 for 
defense environmental cleanup activities in carrying out programs as 
specified in the funding table in section 4701.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out, for defense environmental cleanup 
activities, the following new plant projects:
        Project 15-D-401, KW Basin Sludge Removal Project, Hanford, 
    Washington, $26,290,000.
         Project 15-D-402, Saltstone Disposal Unit #6, Savannah River 
    Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $34,642,000.
        Project 15-D-405, Sludge Processing Facility Build Out, Oak 
    Ridge, Tennessee, $4,200,000.
         Project 15-D-406, Hexavalent Chromium Pump and Treatment 
    Remedy Project, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New 
    Mexico, $28,600,000.
         Project 15-D-409, Low Activity Waste Pretreatment System, 
    Hanford, Washington, $23,000,000.
SEC. 3103. OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2015 for other defense activities in carrying 
out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.

   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

SEC. 3111. DESIGN AND USE OF PROTOTYPES OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS FOR 
INTELLIGENCE PURPOSES.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 4509 of the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2660) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Prototypes.--(1) Not later than the date on which the 
President submits to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, the budget for fiscal year 2016, the directors of the 
national security laboratories shall jointly develop a multiyear plan 
to design and build prototypes of nuclear weapons to further 
intelligence estimates with respect to foreign nuclear weapons 
activities and capabilities.
    ``(2) Not later than the date on which the President submits to 
Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, the 
budget for an even-numbered fiscal year occurring after fiscal year 
2017, the directors shall jointly develop an update to the plan 
developed under paragraph (1).
    ``(3)(A) The directors shall jointly submit to the Secretary of 
Energy and the Director of National Intelligence the plan and each 
update developed under paragraphs (1) and (2), respectively.
    ``(B) Not later than 30 days after the date on which the directors 
submit the plan or an update under subparagraph (A), the Secretary--
        ``(i) shall submit to the congressional defense committees and 
    the congressional intelligence committees the plan or update, as 
    the case may be, without change; and
        ``(ii) may include, with the plan or update submitted under 
    clause (i), the views of the Secretary with respect to the plan or 
    update.
    ``(4)(A) The Secretary, in coordination with the directors, shall 
carry out the plan developed under paragraph (1), including the updates 
to the plan developed under paragraph (2).
    ``(B) The Secretary may determine the manner in which the designing 
and building of prototypes of nuclear weapons is carried out under such 
plan.
    ``(C) The Secretary shall promptly submit to the congressional 
defense committees and the congressional intelligence committees 
written notification of any changes the Secretary makes to such plan 
pursuant to subparagraph (B), including justifications for such 
changes.''.
    (b) Matters Included.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
    subsection (b):
    ``(b) Matters Included.--(1) The directors shall ensure that the 
plan developed and updated under subsection (a) provides increased 
information upon which to base intelligence assessments and emphasizes 
the competencies of the national security laboratories with respect to 
designing and building prototypes of nuclear weapons.
    ``(2) To carry out paragraph (1), the plan developed and updated 
under subsection (a) shall include the following:
        ``(A) Design and system engineering activities of full-scale 
    engineering prototypes (using surrogate special nuclear materials), 
    including weaponization features as required.
        ``(B) Design, system engineering, and experimental testing 
    (using surrogate special nuclear materials) of above-ground 
    experiment test hardware.
        ``(C) Design and system engineering of scaled or subcomponent 
    experimental test articles (using special nuclear materials) for 
    conducting experiments at the Nevada National Security Site.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Subsection (c) of such section, as 
redesignated by subsection (b), is amended by striking ``subsection 
(a), the Administrator'' and inserting ``this section, the Secretary''.
SEC. 3112. PLUTONIUM PIT PRODUCTION CAPACITY.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the requirement to create a modern, responsive nuclear 
    infrastructure that includes the capability and capacity to 
    produce, at minimum, 50 to 80 pits per year, is a national security 
    priority;
        (2) delaying creation of a modern, responsive nuclear 
    infrastructure until the 2030s is an unacceptable risk to the 
    nuclear deterrent and the national security of the United States; 
    and
        (3) timelines for creating certain capacities for production of 
    plutonium pits and other nuclear weapons components must be driven 
    by the requirement to hedge against technical and geopolitical risk 
    and not solely by the needs of life extension programs.
    (b) Pit Production.--
        (1) In general.--Subtitle A of title XLII of the Atomic Energy 
    Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2521 et seq.) is amended by adding at the 
    end the following new section:
``SEC. 4219. PLUTONIUM PIT PRODUCTION CAPACITY.
    ``(a) Requirement.--Consistent with the requirements of the 
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy shall ensure that the 
nuclear security enterprise--
        ``(1) during 2021, begins production of qualification plutonium 
    pits;
        ``(2) during 2024, produces not less than 10 war reserve 
    plutonium pits;
        ``(3) during 2025, produces not less than 20 war reserve 
    plutonium pits;
        ``(4) during 2026, produces not less than 30 war reserve 
    plutonium pits; and
        ``(5) during a pilot period of not less than 90 days during 
    2027 (subject to subsection (b)), demonstrates the capability to 
    produce war reserve plutonium pits at a rate sufficient to produce 
    80 pits per year.
    ``(b) Authorization of Two-year Delay of Demonstration 
Requirement.--The Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of Defense may 
jointly delay, for not more than two years, the requirement under 
subsection (a)(5) if--
        ``(1) the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Energy 
    jointly submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
    describing--
            ``(A) the justification for the proposed delay;
            ``(B) the effects of the proposed delay on stockpile 
        stewardship and modernization, life extension programs, future 
        stockpile strategy, and dismantlement efforts; and
            ``(C) whether the proposed delay is consistent with 
        national policy regarding creation of a responsive nuclear 
        infrastructure; and
        ``(2) the Commander of the United States Strategic Command 
    submits to the congressional defense committees a report containing 
    the assessment of the Commander with respect to the potential risks 
    to national security of the proposed delay in meeting--
            ``(A) the nuclear deterrence requirements of the United 
        States Strategic Command; and
            ``(B) national requirements related to creation of a 
        responsive nuclear infrastructure.
    ``(c) Annual Certification.--Not later than March 1, 2015, and each 
year thereafter through 2027 (or, if the authority under subsection (b) 
is exercised, 2029), the Secretary of Energy shall certify to the 
congressional defense committees and the Secretary of Defense that the 
programs and budget of the Secretary of Energy will enable the nuclear 
security enterprise to meet the requirements under subsection (a).
    ``(d) Plan.--If the Secretary of Energy does not make a 
certification under subsection (c) by March 1 of any year in which a 
certification is required under that subsection, by not later than May 
1 of such year, the Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons Council shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a plan to enable the 
nuclear security enterprise to meet the requirements under subsection 
(a). Such plan shall include identification of the resources of the 
Department of Energy that the Chairman determines should be redirected 
to support the plan to meet such requirements.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for such Act is 
    amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4218 the 
    following new item:

``Sec. 4219. Plutonium pit production capacity.''.
SEC. 3113. LIFE-CYCLE COST ESTIMATES OF CERTAIN ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE 
CAPITAL ASSETS.
    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XLVII of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2741 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:
``SEC. 4714. LIFE-CYCLE COST ESTIMATES OF CERTAIN ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE 
CAPITAL ASSETS.
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy shall ensure that an 
independent life-cycle cost estimate under Department of Energy Order 
413.3 (relating to program management and project management for the 
acquisition of capital assets) of each capital asset described in 
subsection (b) is conducted before the asset achieves critical decision 
2 in the acquisition process.
    ``(b) Capital Assets Described.--A capital asset described in this 
subsection is an atomic energy defense capital asset--
        ``(1) the total project cost of which exceeds $100,000,000; and
        ``(2) the purpose of which is to perform a limited-life, 
    single-purpose mission.
    ``(c) Independent Defined.--For purposes of subsection (a), the 
term `independent', with respect to a life-cycle cost estimate of a 
capital asset, means that the life-cycle cost estimate is prepared by 
an organization independent of the project sponsor, using the same 
detailed technical and procurement information as the sponsor, to 
determine if the life-cycle cost estimate of the sponsor is accurate 
and reasonable.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for such Act is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4713 the 
following new item:

``Sec. 4714. Life-cycle cost estimates of certain atomic energy defense 
          capital assets.''.
SEC. 3114. EXPANSION OF REQUIREMENT FOR INDEPENDENT COST ESTIMATES ON 
LIFE EXTENSION PROGRAMS AND NEW NUCLEAR FACILITIES.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (b)(1) of section 4217 of the Atomic 
Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2537) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as clauses 
    (i), (ii), and (iii), respectively, and by moving such clauses, as 
    so redesignated, two ems to the right;
        (2) in clause (iii), as redesignated by paragraph (1), by 
    striking ``critical decision 2'' and inserting ``critical decision 
    1 and before such facility achieves critical decision 2'';
        (3) in the matter preceding clause (i), as so redesignated, by 
    striking ``an independent cost estimate of'';
        (4) by inserting before clause (i), as so redesignated, the 
    following:
        ``(A) An independent cost estimate of the following:''; and
        (5) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(B) An independent cost review of each nuclear weapon system 
    undergoing life extension at the completion of phase 6.2, relating 
    to study of feasibility and down-select.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--Such section is further 
amended--
        (1) in the section heading, by striking ``estimates on'' and 
    inserting ``estimates and reviews of''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``and Reviews'' 
        after ``Estimates''; and
            (B) in paragraphs (2) and (3), by inserting ``or review'' 
        after ``estimate'' each place it appears.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for such Act is 
amended by striking the item relating to section 4217 and inserting the 
following new item:

``Sec. 4217. Selected Acquisition Reports and independent cost estimates 
          and reviews of life extension programs and new nuclear 
          facilities.''.
SEC. 3115. DEFINITION OF BASELINE AND THRESHOLD FOR STOCKPILE LIFE 
EXTENSION PROJECT.
    Section 4713 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2753) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1)(A), by adding after the period the 
    following new sentence: ``In addition to the requirement under 
    subparagraph (B), the cost and schedule baseline of a nuclear 
    stockpile life extension project established under this 
    subparagraph shall be the cost and schedule as described in the 
    first Selected Acquisition Report submitted under section 4217(a) 
    for the project.''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``200'' and inserting 
    ``150''.
SEC. 3116. AUTHORIZED PERSONNEL LEVELS OF NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY 
ADMINISTRATION.
    (a) Full-time Equivalent Personnel Levels.--Subsection (a) of 
section 3241A of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 
U.S.C. 2441a) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``2014'' and inserting ``2015''; and
            (B) by striking ``1,825'' and inserting ``1,690''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by striking ``2015'' and inserting ``2016''; and
            (B) by striking ``1,825'' and inserting ``1,690''.
    (b) Definition.--Such section is further amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Office of the Administrator Employees.--In this section, the 
term `Office of the Administrator', with respect to the employees of 
the Administration, includes employees whose funding is derived from an 
account of the Administration titled `Federal Salaries and 
Expenses'.''.
SEC. 3117. COST ESTIMATION AND PROGRAM EVALUATION BY NATIONAL NUCLEAR 
SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.
    Section 3221(h) of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2411(h)) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as paragraphs (2) 
    and (3), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting before paragraph (2), as so redesignated, the 
    following new paragraph (1):
        ``(1) Administration.--The term `Administration', with respect 
    to any authority, duty, or responsibility provided by this section, 
    does not include the Office of Naval Reactors.''.
SEC. 3118. COST CONTAINMENT FOR URANIUM CAPABILITIES REPLACEMENT 
PROJECT.
    Section 3123 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2177), as amended by section 
3126 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
(Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1063), is further amended--
        (1) by striking subsections (g) and (h);
        (2) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) 
    and (g), respectively; and
        (3) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following new 
    subsections:
    ``(d) Cost of Phase I.--
        ``(1) Limitation.--The total cost of Phase I under subsection 
    (a) of the project referred to in that subsection may not exceed 
    $4,200,000,000.
        ``(2) Adjustment.--If the Secretary determines the total cost 
    of Phase I under subsection (a) of the project referred to in that 
    subsection will exceed the amount set forth in paragraph (1), the 
    Secretary may adjust that amount if, by not later than March 1, 
    2015, the Secretary submits to the congressional defense committees 
    a detailed justification for the adjustment, including--
            ``(A) the amount of the adjustment and the proposed total 
        cost of Phase I;
            ``(B) a detailed justification for the adjustment, 
        including a description of the changes to the project that 
        would be required for Phase I to not exceed the total cost set 
        forth in paragraph (1);
            ``(C) a detailed description of the actions taken to hold 
        appropriate contractors, employees of contractors, and 
        employees of the Federal Government accountable for the 
        repeated failures within the project;
            ``(D) a description of the clear lines of responsibility, 
        authority, and accountability for the project as the project 
        continues, including descriptions of the roles and 
        responsibilities for each key Federal and contractor position; 
        and
            ``(E) a detailed description of the structural reforms 
        planned or implemented by the Secretary to ensure Phase I is 
        executed on time and on schedule.
        ``(3) Annual certification.--Not later than March 1 of each 
    year through 2025, the Secretary shall certify in writing to the 
    congressional defense committees and the Secretary of Defense that 
    Phase I under subsection (a) of the project referred to in that 
    subsection will--
            ``(A) not exceed the total cost set forth in paragraph (1) 
        (as adjusted pursuant to paragraph (2), if so adjusted); and
            ``(B) meet a schedule that enables, by not later than 
        2025--
                ``(i) uranium operations in building 9212 to cease; and
                ``(ii) uranium operations in a new facility constructed 
            under the project to begin.
        ``(4) Report.--If the Secretary of Energy does not make a 
    certification under paragraph (3) by March 1 of any year in which a 
    certification is required under that paragraph, by not later than 
    May 1 of that year, the Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons Council 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that 
    identifies the resources of the Department of Energy that the 
    Chairman determines should be redirected to enable the Department 
    of Energy to meet the total cost and schedule requirements 
    described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of that paragraph.
    ``(e) Technology Readiness Levels During Phase I.--
        ``(1) In general.--Critical decision 3 in the acquisition 
    process may not be approved for Phase I under subsection (a) of the 
    project referred to in that subsection until all processes (or 
    substitute processes) that require Category I and II special 
    nuclear material protection and are actively used to support the 
    stockpile in building 9212--
            ``(A) are present in the facility to be built under Phase I 
        with a technology readiness level of 7 or higher; or
            ``(B) can be accommodated in other facilities of the Y-12 
        National Security Complex with a technology readiness level of 
        7 or higher.
        ``(2) Technology readiness level defined.--In this subsection, 
    the term `technology readiness level' has the meaning given that 
    term in Department of Energy Guide 413.3-4A (relating to technology 
    readiness assessment).''; and
        (4) in subsection (f), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
    adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2015, the Secretary of 
    Energy and the Secretary of the Navy shall jointly submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report detailing the 
    implementation of paragraphs (1) and (2), including--
            ``(A) a description of the program management, oversight, 
        design, and other responsibilities for the project referred to 
        in subsection (a) that are provided to the Commander of the 
        Naval Facilities Engineering Command pursuant to paragraph (1); 
        and
            ``(B) a description of the funding used by the Secretary 
        under paragraph (2) to carry out paragraph (1).''.
SEC. 3119. PRODUCTION OF NUCLEAR WARHEAD FOR LONG-RANGE STANDOFF 
WEAPON.
    (a) First Production Unit.--The Secretary of Energy shall deliver a 
first production unit for a nuclear warhead for the long-range standoff 
weapon by not later than September 30, 2025.
    (b) Authorization of One-year Delay.--The Secretary may delay the 
requirement under subsection (a) by not more than one year if the 
Commander of the United States Strategic Command certifies to the 
Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons Council (established by section 179 of 
title 10, United States Code) and the congressional defense committees 
that the delay--
        (1) is in the interest of national security; and
        (2) does not negatively affect the ability of the Commander to 
    meet nuclear deterrence and assurance requirements.
    (c) Plan.--
        (1) Development.--The Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of 
    Defense shall jointly develop a plan to carry out subsection (a).
        (2) Submission.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall jointly submit to the 
    congressional defense committees the plan developed under paragraph 
    (1).
    (d) Notification and Assessment.--
        (1) Notification.--If at any time the Secretary of Energy 
    determines that the Secretary will not deliver a first production 
    unit for a nuclear warhead for the long-range standoff weapon by 
    not later than September 30, 2025 (or, if the authority under 
    subsection (b) is exercised, September 30, 2026), the Secretary 
    shall--
            (A) notify the congressional defense committees, the 
        Secretary of Defense, and the Commander of the United States 
        Strategic Command of such determination; and
            (B) include in the notification under subparagraph (A) an 
        explanation for why the delivery will be delayed.
        (2) Assessment.--If the Secretary of Energy makes a 
    notification under paragraph (1)(A), the Commander of the United 
    States Strategic Command shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees an assessment of the delay described in the 
    notification, including--
            (A) the effects of such delay to national security and 
        nuclear deterrence and assurance; and
            (B) any mitigation options available.
    (e) Briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Commander of the United States Strategic Command, shall provide to 
the congressional defense committees a briefing on the justification 
for the long-range standoff weapon, including--
        (1) why such weapon is needed, including any potential 
    redundancies with existing weapons;
        (2) the estimated cost of such weapon; and
        (3) what warhead, existing or otherwise, is planned to be used 
    for such weapon.
SEC. 3120. DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS-USABLE PLUTONIUM.
    (a) Mixed Oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility.--
        (1) In general.--Using funds described in paragraph (2), the 
    Secretary of Energy shall carry out construction and project 
    support activities relating to the MOX facility.
        (2) Funds described.--The funds described in this paragraph are 
    the following:
            (A) Funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
        otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 for the National 
        Nuclear Security Administration for the MOX facility for 
        construction and project support activities.
            (B) Funds authorized to be appropriated for a fiscal year 
        prior to fiscal year 2015 for the National Nuclear Security 
        Administration for the MOX facility for construction and 
        project support activities that are unobligated as of the date 
        of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Study.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall seek to enter into a 
    contract with a federally funded research and development center to 
    conduct a study to assess and validate the analysis of the 
    Secretary with respect to surplus weapon-grade plutonium options.
        (2) Submission.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the federally funded research and 
    development center conducting the study under paragraph (1) shall 
    submit to the Secretary a report on the study, including any 
    findings and recommendations.
    (c) Report.--
        (1) Plan.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the study conducted 
    under subsection (b)(1).
        (2) Elements included.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) The report of the federally funded research and 
        development center under subsection (b)(2), without change.
            (B) Identification of the alternatives to the MOX facility 
        considered by the Secretary, including a life-cycle cost 
        analysis for each such alternative.
            (C) Identification of the portions of such life cycle cost 
        analyses that are common to all such alternatives.
            (D) Discussion on continuation of the MOX facility, 
        including a future funding profile or a detailed discussion of 
        selected alternatives determined appropriate by the Secretary 
        for such discussion.
            (E) Discussion of the issues regarding implementation of 
        such selected alternatives, including all regulatory and public 
        acceptance issues, including interactions with affected States.
            (F) Explanation of how the alternatives to the MOX facility 
        conform with the Plutonium Disposition Agreement, and if an 
        alternative does not so conform, what measures must be taken to 
        ensure conformance.
            (G) Identification of steps the Secretary would have to 
        take to close out all activities related to the MOX facility, 
        as well as the associated cost.
            (H) Any other matters the Secretary determines appropriate.
    (d) Exclusion of Certain Options.--
        (1) In general.--The study under subsection (b)(1) and the 
    report under subsection (c)(1) shall not include any assessment or 
    discussion of options that involve moving plutonium to a State 
    where the Federal Government--
            (A) is not meeting all legally binding deadlines and 
        milestones required under the Tri-Party Agreement and the 
        Consent Decree;
            (B) has provided notification that any element of the Tri-
        Party Agreement or the Consent Decree is at risk of being 
        breached; or
            (C) is in dispute resolution with the State regarding the 
        Tri-Party Agreement or the Consent Decree.
        (2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) The term ``Tri-Party Agreement'' means the 
        comprehensive cleanup and compliance agreement between the 
        Secretary, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection 
        Agency, and the State of Washington entered into on May 15, 
        1989.
            (B) The term ``Consent Decree'' means the legal agreement 
        between the Secretary and the State of Washington finalized in 
        2010.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``MOX facility'' means the mixed-oxide fuel 
    fabrication facility at the Savannah River Site, Aiken, South 
    Carolina.
        (2) The term ``Plutonium Disposition Agreement'' means the 
    Agreement Concerning the Management and Disposition of Plutonium 
    Designated As No Longer Required for Defense Purposes and Related 
    Cooperation, signed at Moscow and Washington August 29 and 
    September 1, 2000, and entered into force July 13, 2011 (TIAS 11-
    713.1), between the United States and the Russian Federation.
        (3) The term ``project support activities'' means activities 
    that support the design, long-lead equipment procurement, and site 
    preparation of the MOX facility.
SEC. 3121. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR OFFICE OF THE 
ADMINISTRATOR FOR NUCLEAR SECURITY.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2015 by section 3101 and available for the Office of the 
Administrator as specified in the funding table in section 4701, or 
otherwise made available for that Office for that fiscal year, not more 
than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until--
        (1) the President transmits to Congress the matters required to 
    be transmitted during 2015 under section 4205(f)(2) of the Atomic 
    Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2525(f)(2));
        (2) the President transmits to the congressional defense 
    committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and 
    the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives 
    the matters--
            (A) required to be transmitted during 2015 under section 
        1043 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1576), as most recently 
        amended by section 1054 of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 861); 
        and
            (B) with respect to which the Secretary of Energy is 
        responsible;
        (3) the Secretary submits to the congressional defense 
    committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and 
    the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives 
    the report required to be submitted during 2015 under section 
    3122(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1710); and
        (4) the Administrator for Nuclear Security submits to the 
    congressional defense committees the detailed report on the 
    stockpile stewardship, management, and infrastructure plan required 
    to be submitted during 2015 under section 4203(b)(2) of the Atomic 
    Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2523(b)(2)).
    (b) Office of the Administrator Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Office of the Administrator'', with respect to accounts of the 
National Nuclear Security Administration, includes any account from 
which funds are derived for ``Federal Salaries and Expenses''.
SEC. 3122. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR CERTAIN 
NONPROLIFERATION ACTIVITIES BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND THE RUSSIAN 
FEDERATION.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States should carry out nuclear nonproliferation 
    activities in the Russian Federation only if those activities are 
    consistent with and in support of the security interests of the 
    United States; and
        (2) in carrying out any such activities after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy should focus on only 
    those activities that--
            (A) are in support of the arms control obligations of the 
        United States and the Russian Federation; or
            (B) will reduce the threats posed by weapons of mass 
        destruction and related materials and technology to the United 
        States and countries in the Euro-Atlantic and Eurasian regions.
    (b) Completion of Material Protection, Control, and Accounting 
Activities in the Russian Federation.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2) or 
    specifically authorized by Congress, international material 
    protection, control, and accounting activities in the Russian 
    Federation shall be completed not later than fiscal year 2018.
        (2) Exception.--The limitation in paragraph (1) shall not apply 
    to international material protection, control, and accounting 
    activities in the Russian Federation associated with the Agreement 
    Concerning the Management and Disposition of Plutonium Designated 
    as No Longer Required for Defense Purposes and Related Cooperation, 
    signed at Moscow and Washington August 29 and September 1, 2000, 
    and entered into force July 13, 2011 (TIAS 11-713.1), between the 
    United States and the Russian Federation.
    (c) Limitation on Transfer of MILES Technology.--None of the funds 
authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available 
for fiscal year 2015 for the National Nuclear Security Administration 
may be used for the transfer of Multiple Integrated Laser Engagement 
System technology between the United States and the Russian Federation.
SEC. 3123. IDENTIFICATION OF AMOUNTS REQUIRED FOR URANIUM TECHNOLOGY 
SUSTAINMENT IN BUDGET MATERIALS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2016.
    The Administrator for Nuclear Security shall include, in the budget 
justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the budget 
of the President for fiscal year 2016 (as submitted to Congress under 
section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code), specific 
identification, as a budgetary line item, of the amounts required for 
uranium technology sustainment in support of the nuclear weapons 
stockpile in a manner that minimizes the use of plant-directed research 
and development funds for full-scale technology development past a 
technology readiness level of 5 (as defined in Department of Energy 
Guide 413.3-4A (relating to technology readiness assessment)).

                     Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

SEC. 3131. ANALYSIS AND REPORT ON W88 ALT 370 PROGRAM HIGH EXPLOSIVES 
OPTIONS.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy, the Administrator for 
Nuclear Security, and the Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons Council 
(established by section 179 of title 10, United States Code) shall 
jointly submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
W88 Alt 370 program that contains analyses of the costs, benefits, 
risks, and feasibility of each of the following options:
        (1) Incorporating a refresh of the conventional high explosives 
    of the W88 warhead as part of such program.
        (2) Not incorporating such a refresh as part of such program.
    (b) Matters Included.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
include, for each option described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
subsection (a), an analysis of the following:
        (1) Near-term and lifecycle cost estimates, including costs to 
    both the Navy and the National Nuclear Security Administration.
        (2) Potential cost avoidance.
        (3) Operational effects to the Navy and to the capacity and 
    throughput of the nuclear security enterprise (as defined in 
    section 4002 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501)) of 
    the National Nuclear Security Administration.
        (4) The expected longevity of the W88 warhead.
        (5) Near-term and long-term safety and security risks and 
    potential risk-mitigation measures.
        (6) Any other matters the Secretary, the Administrator, or the 
    Chairman considers appropriate.
SEC. 3132. ANALYSIS OF EXISTING FACILITIES AND SENSE OF CONGRESS WITH 
RESPECT TO PLUTONIUM STRATEGY.
    (a) Analysis Required.--The Administrator for Nuclear Security 
shall include, as part of the Administrator's planned analysis of 
alternatives to support the plutonium strategy of the National Nuclear 
Security Administration, an analysis of using or modifying existing 
facilities of the nuclear security enterprise (as defined in section 
4002 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501)) to support that 
strategy, as part of critical decision 1 in the acquisition process for 
the design and construction of modular structures associated with 
operations of the PF-4 facility at Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los 
Alamos, New Mexico.
    (b) Matters Included.--The analysis required by subsection (a) 
shall include an analysis of the following:
        (1) The costs, benefits, cost savings, risks, and effects of 
    using or modifying existing facilities of the nuclear security 
    enterprise to support the plutonium strategy of the Administration.
        (2) Such other matters as the Administrator considers 
    appropriate.
    (c) Submission.--The Administrator shall submit the analysis 
required by subsection (a) to the congressional defense committees not 
later than 30 days after completing the analysis.
    (d) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
requirement to create a modern, responsive plutonium infrastructure is 
a national security priority, and that the Administrator must fulfill 
the obligations of the Administrator under section 3114(c) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (50 U.S.C. 2535 
note), as well as the commitment made by the Chairman of the Nuclear 
Weapons Council (established by section 179 of title 10, United States 
Code) in the letter of the Chairman, dated July 25, 2014, to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives, to carry out a modular building strategy for plutonium 
capabilities that--
        (1) meets the requirements for maintaining the nuclear weapons 
    stockpile over a 30-year period;
        (2) meets the requirements for implementation of a responsive 
    infrastructure, including meeting plutonium pit production 
    requirements; and
        (3) includes plans to construct two modular structures that 
    will achieve full operating capability not later than 2027.
SEC. 3133. PLAN FOR VERIFICATION AND MONITORING OF PROLIFERATION OF 
NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND FISSILE MATERIAL.
    (a) Plan.--The President, in consultation with the Secretary of 
State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary 
of Homeland Security, and the Director of National Intelligence, shall 
develop an interagency plan for verification and monitoring relating to 
the potential proliferation of nuclear weapons, components of such 
weapons, and fissile material.
    (b) Elements.--The plan developed under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) An interagency plan and road map for verification and 
    monitoring, with respect to policy, operations, and research, 
    development, testing, and evaluation, including--
            (A) identifying requirements (including funding 
        requirements) for such verification and monitoring; and
            (B) identifying and integrating roles, responsibilities, 
        and planning for such verification and monitoring.
        (2) An engagement plan for building cooperation and 
    transparency to improve inspections and monitoring.
        (3) A research and development program to--
            (A) improve monitoring, detection, and in-field inspection 
        and analysis capabilities, including persistent surveillance, 
        remote monitoring, and rapid analysis of large data sets, 
        including open-source data; and
            (B) coordinate technical and operational requirements early 
        in the process.
        (4) Engagement of relevant departments and agencies of the 
    Federal Government and the military departments (including the Open 
    Source Center and the United States Atomic Energy Detection 
    System), national laboratories, industry, and academia.
    (c) Submission.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than September 1, 2015, the 
    President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
    the plan developed under subsection (a).
        (2) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means 
    the following:
            (A) The congressional defense committees.
            (B) The Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
        the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (C) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (D) The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of 
        the House of Representatives.
            (E) The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
        of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
        House of Representatives.
SEC. 3134. COMMENTS OF ADMINISTRATOR FOR NUCLEAR SECURITY AND CHAIRMAN 
OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS COUNCIL ON FINAL REPORT OF CONGRESSIONAL ADVISORY 
PANEL ON THE GOVERNANCE OF THE NUCLEAR SECURITY ENTERPRISE.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Administrator for Nuclear Security and the Chairman of the Nuclear 
Weapons Council (established by section 179 of title 10, United States 
Code) shall each submit to the congressional defense committees the 
comments of the Administrator or the Chairman, as the case may be, with 
respect to the findings, conclusions, and recommendations included in 
the final report of the Congressional Advisory Panel on the Governance 
of the Nuclear Security Enterprise under section 3166(d)(2) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 
112-239; 126 Stat. 2209), as amended by section 3142 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 
Stat. 1069).

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 3141. ESTABLISHMENT OF ADVISORY BOARD ON TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND 
WORKER HEALTH; EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY OF OFFICE OF OMBUDSMAN FOR ENERGY 
EMPLOYEES OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS COMPENSATION PROGRAM.
    (a) Advisory Board on Toxic Substances and Worker Health.--Subtitle 
E of the Energy Employees Occupational Illness Compensation Program Act 
of 2000 (42 U.S.C. 7385o et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
``SEC. 3687. ADVISORY BOARD ON TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND WORKER HEALTH.
    ``(a) Establishment.--(1) Not later than 120 days after the date of 
the enactment of this section, the President shall establish and 
appoint an Advisory Board on Toxic Substances and Worker Health (in 
this section referred to as the `Board').
    ``(2) The President shall make appointments to the Board in 
consultation with organizations with expertise on worker health issues 
in order to ensure that the membership of the Board reflects a proper 
balance of perspectives from the scientific, medical, and claimant 
communities.
    ``(3) The President shall designate a Chair of the Board from among 
its members.
    ``(b) Duties.--The Board shall--
        ``(1) advise the Secretary of Labor with respect to--
            ``(A) the site exposure matrices of the Department of 
        Labor;
            ``(B) medical guidance for claims examiners for claims 
        under this subtitle with respect to the weighing of the medical 
        evidence of claimants;
            ``(C) evidentiary requirements for claims under subtitle B 
        related to lung disease; and
            ``(D) the work of industrial hygienists and staff 
        physicians and consulting physicians of the Department and 
        reports of such hygienists and physicians to ensure quality, 
        objectivity, and consistency; and
        ``(2) coordinate exchanges of data and findings with the 
    Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker Health established under 
    section 3624 to the extent necessary.
    ``(c) Staff and Powers.--(1) The President shall appoint a staff to 
facilitate the work of the Board. The staff of the Board shall be 
headed by a Director, who shall be appointed under subchapter VIII of 
chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code.
    ``(2) The President may authorize the detail of employees of 
Federal agencies to the Board as necessary to enable the Board to carry 
out its duties under this section. The detail of such personnel may be 
on a nonreimbursable basis.
    ``(3) The Secretary may employ outside contractors and specialists 
to support the work of the Board.
    ``(d) Conflicts of Interest.--No member, employee, or contractor of 
the Board shall have any financial interest, employment, or contractual 
relationship (other than a routine consumer transaction) with any 
person that has provided, or sought to provide during the two years 
preceding the appointment or during the service of the member, 
employee, or contractor under this section, goods or services related 
to medical benefits under this title.
    ``(e) Expenses.--Members of the Board, other than full-time 
employees of the United States, while attending meetings of the Board 
or while otherwise serving at the request of the President, and while 
serving away from their homes or regular places of business, shall be 
allowed travel and meal expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
subsistence (as authorized by section 5703 of title 5, United States 
Code) for individuals in the Federal Government serving without pay.
    ``(f) Security Clearances.--(1) The Secretary of Energy shall 
ensure that the members and staff of the Board, and the contractors 
performing work in support of the Board, are afforded the opportunity 
to apply for a security clearance for any matter for which such a 
clearance is appropriate.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Energy should, not later than 180 days after 
receiving a completed application for a security clearance for an 
individual under this subsection, make a determination of whether or 
not the individual is eligible for the clearance.
    ``(3) For fiscal year 2016 and each fiscal year thereafter, the 
Secretary of Energy shall include in the budget justification materials 
submitted to Congress in support of the Department of Energy budget for 
that fiscal year (as submitted with the budget of the President under 
section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) a report specifying 
the number of applications for security clearances under this 
subsection, the number of such applications granted, and the number of 
such applications denied.
    ``(g) Information.--The Secretary of Energy shall, in accordance 
with law, provide to the Board and the contractors of the Board, access 
to any information that the Board considers relevant to carry out its 
responsibilities under this section, including information such as 
Restricted Data (as defined in section 11 y. of the Atomic Energy Act 
of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014(y))) and information covered by section 552a of 
title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the `Privacy Act').
    ``(h) Authorization of Appropriations.--
        ``(1) In general.--There are authorized to be appropriated such 
    sums as may be necessary to carry out this section.
        ``(2) Treatment as discretionary spending.--Amounts 
    appropriated to carry out this section--
            ``(A) shall not be appropriated to the account established 
        under subsection (a) of section 151 of title I of division B of 
        Appendix D of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2001 (Public 
        Law 106-554; 114 Stat. 2763A-251); and
            ``(B) shall not be subject to subsection (b) of that 
        section.
    ``(i) Sunset.--The Board shall terminate on the date that is 5 
years after the date of the enactment of this section.''.
    (b) Department of Labor Response to the Office of the Ombudsman 
Annual Report; Extension of Authority.--Section 3686 of such Act (42 
U.S.C. 7385s-15) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (e)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``February 15'' and 
        inserting ``July 30''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(4) Not later than 180 days after the submission to Congress of 
the annual report under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to 
Congress in writing, and post on the public Internet website of the 
Department of Labor, a response to the report that--
        ``(A) includes a statement of whether the Secretary agrees or 
    disagrees with the specific issues raised by the Ombudsman in the 
    report;
        ``(B) if the Secretary agrees with the Ombudsman on those 
    issues, describes the actions to be taken to correct those issues; 
    and
        ``(C) if the Secretary does not agree with the Ombudsman on 
    those issues, describes the reasons the Secretary does not 
    agree.''; and
        (2) in subsection (h), by striking ``2012'' and inserting 
    ``2019''.
SEC. 3142. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE ACT.
    (a) Definitions.--Section 4002(3) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2501(3)) is amended by striking ``Executive Order No. 12333 
of December 4, 1981 (50 U.S.C. 401 note), Executive Order No. 12958 of 
April 17, 1995 (50 U.S.C. 435 note),'' and inserting ``Executive Order 
No. 12333 of December 4, 1981 (50 U.S.C. 3001 note), Executive Order 
No. 12958 of April 17, 1995 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note), Executive Order No. 
13526 of December 29, 2009 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note),''.
    (b) Management Structure.--Section 4102(b)(3) of such Act (50 
U.S.C. 2512(b)(3)) is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking ``for 
    improving the'';
        (2) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``for improving the'' 
    before ``governance''; and
        (3) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``relating to'' before 
    ``any other''.
    (c) Stockpile Stewardship.--Section 4203(d)(4)(A)(i) of such Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2523(d)(4)(A)(i)) is amended by striking ``50 U.S.C. 404a'' 
and inserting ``50 U.S.C. 3043''.
    (d) Reports on Stockpile.--Section 4205(b)(2) of such Act (50 
U.S.C. 2525(b)(2)) is amended by striking ``commander'' and inserting 
``Commander''.
    (e) Advice on Reliability of Stockpile.--Section 4218 of such Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2538) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (d), by striking ``commander'' and inserting 
    ``Commander''; and
        (2) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``representatives'' and 
    inserting ``a representative''.
    (f) Disposition of Certain Plutonium.--Section 4306 of such Act (50 
U.S.C. 2566) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(6)(C), by striking ``paragraph (A)'' and 
    inserting ``subparagraph (A)'';
        (2) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``2002'' and inserting 
    ``2002,''; and
        (3) in subsection (d)(3), by inserting ``of Energy'' after 
    ``Department''.
    (g) Defense Environmental Cleanup Technology Program.--Section 
4406(a) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 2586(a)) is amended--
        (1) by inserting an em dash after ``useful for'';
        (2) by realigning paragraphs (1) and (2) so as to be indented 
    two ems from the left margin; and
        (3) in paragraph (1), by striking ``, and'' and inserting ``; 
    and''.
    (h) Report on Hanford Tank Safety.--Section 4441 of such Act (50 
U.S.C. 2621) is amended by striking subsection (d).
    (i) Limitation on Use of Funds in Relation to F-Canyon Facility.--
Section 4454 of such Act (50 U.S.C. 2638) is amended in paragraphs (1) 
and (2) by inserting ``of'' after ``assessment''.
    (j) Inspections of Certain Facilities.--Section 4501(a) of such Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2651(a)) is amended by striking ``nuclear weapons facility'' 
and inserting ``national security laboratory or nuclear weapons 
production facility''.
    (k) Notice Relating to Certain Failures.--Section 4505 of such Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2656) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b), by striking the subsection heading and 
    inserting the following: ``Significant Atomic Energy Defense 
    Intelligence Losses''; and
        (2) in subsection (e)(2), by striking ``50 U.S.C. 413'' and 
    inserting ``50 U.S.C. 3091''.
    (l) Review of Certain Documents Before Declassification and 
Release.--Section 4521(b) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 2671(b)) is amended by 
striking ``Executive Order 12958'' and inserting ``Executive Order No. 
13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note)''.
    (m) Protection Against Release of Restricted Data.--Section 4522 of 
such Act (50 U.S.C. 2672) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Executive Order No. 12958 
    (50 U.S.C. 435 note)'' and inserting ``Executive Order No. 13526 
    (50 U.S.C. 3161 note)'';
        (2) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``Executive Order No. 
    12958'' and inserting ``Executive Order No. 13526''; and
        (3) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ``Executive Order No. 
    12958'' and inserting ``Executive Order No. 13526''.
    (n) Identification of Declassification Activities in Budget 
Materials.--Section 4525(a) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 2675(a)) is amended 
by striking ``Executive Order No. 12958 (50 U.S.C. 435 note)'' and 
inserting ``Executive Order No. 13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note)''.
    (o) Workforce Restructuring Plan.--Section 4604(f)(3) of such Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2704(f)(3)) is amended by striking ``Nevada and'' and 
inserting ``Nevada, and''.
    (p) Availability of Funds.--Section 4709(b) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 
2749(b)) is amended by striking ``athorization'' and inserting 
``authorization''.
    (q) Transfer of Defense Environmental Cleanup Funds.--Section 
4710(b)(3)(B) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 2750(b)(3)(B)) is amended by 
striking ``management'' and inserting ``cleanup''.
    (r) Restriction on Use of Funds to Pay Certain Penalties.--Section 
4722 of such Act (50 U.S.C. 2762) is amended--
        (1) by inserting an em dash after ``Department of Energy if'';
        (2) by realigning paragraphs (1) and (2) so as to be indented 
    two ems from the left margin; and
        (3) in paragraph (1), by striking ``, or'' and inserting ``; 
    or''.
    (s) Enhanced Procurement Authority.--Section 4806(g)(1) of such Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2786(g)(1)) is amended by striking ``the date that is 180 
days after the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014'' and inserting ``June 24, 
2014''.
    (t) Critical Technology Partnerships.--Section 4813(a) of such Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2794(a)) is amended by striking ``that atomic energy defense 
activities research on, and development of, any dual-use critical 
technology'' and inserting ``that research on and development of dual-
use critical technology carried out through atomic energy defense 
activities''.
    (u) Research and Development by Certain Facilities.--Section 
4832(a) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 2812(a)) is amended by striking ``for 
Nuclear Security''.
    (v) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for such Act is 
amended by striking the item relating to section 4710 and inserting the 
following:

``Sec. 4710. Transfer of defense environmental cleanup funds.''.
SEC. 3143. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY 
ADMINISTRATION ACT.
    (a) Status of Certain Personnel.--Section 3220(c) of the National 
Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2410(c)) is amended--
        (1) by inserting an em dash after ``activities between'';
        (2) by realigning paragraphs (1) and (2) so as to be indented 
    two ems from the left margin; and
        (3) in paragraph (1), by striking ``, and'' and inserting ``; 
    and''.
    (b) Congressional Oversight of Certain Programs.--Section 
3236(a)(2)(B)(iv) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 2426(a)(2)(B)(iv)) is 
amended--
        (1) by inserting an em dash after ``program for'';
        (2) by realigning subclauses (I), (II), and (III) so as to be 
    indented six ems from the left margin;
        (3) in subclause (I), by striking ``year,'' and inserting 
    ``year;''; and
        (4) in subclause (II), by striking ``, and'' and inserting ``; 
    and''.
SEC. 3144. TECHNOLOGY COMMERCIALIZATION FUND.
    Section 1001(e) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 
16391(e)) is amended by inserting ``based on future planned activities 
and the amount of the appropriations for the fiscal year'' after 
``fiscal year''.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.
Sec. 3202. Inspector General of Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
Sec. 3203. Number of employees of Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
          Board.
SEC. 3201. AUTHORIZATION.
    There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2015, 
$29,150,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 
et seq.).
SEC. 3202. INSPECTOR GENERAL OF DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY 
BOARD.
    Subsection (a) of section 322 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 
U.S.C. 2286k(a)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--The Inspector General of the Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission shall serve as the Inspector General of the Board, in 
accordance with the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).''.
SEC. 3203. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES OF DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY 
BOARD.
    (a) In General.--Section 313(b)(1)(A) of the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286b(b)(1)(A)) is amended by striking ``150 full-time 
employees'' and inserting ``130 full-time employees''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on October 1, 2015.

                 TITLE XXXIV--NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES

Sec. 3401. Authorization of appropriations.
SEC. 3401. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    (a) Amount.--There are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Energy $19,950,000 for fiscal year 2015 for the purpose of 
carrying out activities under chapter 641 of title 10, United States 
Code, relating to the naval petroleum reserves.
    (b) Period of Availability.--Funds appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in subsection (a) shall remain 
available until expended.

                  TITLE XXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3501. Authorization of appropriations for national security aspects 
          of the Merchant Marine for fiscal year 2015.
Sec. 3502. Floating dry docks.
Sec. 3503. Sense of Congress on the role of domestic maritime industry 
          in national security.
Sec. 3504. United States Merchant Marine Academy Board of Visitors.
SEC. 3501. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR NATIONAL SECURITY 
ASPECTS OF THE MERCHANT MARINE FOR FISCAL YEAR 2015.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 
2015, to be available without fiscal year limitation if so provided in 
appropriations Acts, for the use of the Department of Transportation 
for Maritime Administration programs associated with maintaining 
national security aspects of the merchant marine, as follows:
        (1) For expenses necessary for operations of the United States 
    Merchant Marine Academy, $79,790,000, of which--
            (A) $65,290,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        Academy operations;
            (B) $14,500,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        capital asset management at the Academy.
        (2) For expenses necessary to support the State maritime 
    academies, $17,650,000, of which--
            (A) $2,400,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        student incentive payments;
            (B) $3,600,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        direct payments to such academies;
            (C) $11,300,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        maintenance and repair of State maritime academy training 
        vessels; and
            (D) $350,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        improving the monitoring of graduates' service obligation.
        (3) For expenses necessary to support Maritime Administration 
    operations and programs, $50,960,000.
        (4) For expenses necessary to dispose of vessels in the 
    National Defense Reserve Fleet, $4,800,000, to remain available 
    until expended.
        (5) For expenses to maintain and preserve a United States-flag 
    merchant marine to serve the national security needs of the United 
    States under chapter 531 of title 46, United States Code, 
    $186,000,000.
        (6) For the cost (as defined in section 502(5) of the Federal 
    Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a(5)) of loan guarantees 
    under the program authorized by chapter 537 of title 46, United 
    States Code, $73,100,000, of which $3,100,000 shall remain 
    available until expended for administrative expenses of the 
    program.
SEC. 3502. FLOATING DRY DOCKS.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 551 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 55122. Floating dry docks
    ``(a) In General.--Section 55102 of this title does not apply to 
the movement of a floating dry dock if--
        ``(1) the floating dry dock--
            ``(A) is being used to launch or raise a vessel in 
        connection with the construction, maintenance, or repair of 
        that vessel;
            ``(B) is owned and operated by--
                ``(i) a shipyard located in the United States that is 
            an eligible owner specified under section 12103(b) of this 
            title; or
                ``(ii) an affiliate of such a shipyard; and
            ``(C) was owned or contracted for purchase by such shipyard 
        or affiliate prior to the date of the enactment of the Carl 
        Levin and Howard P. `Buck' McKeon National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015; and
        ``(2) the movement occurs within 5 nautical miles of the 
    shipyard or affiliate that owns and operates such floating dry 
    dock.
    ``(b) Definition.--In this section, the term `floating dry dock' 
means equipment with wing walls and a fully submersible deck.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 551 of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
item:

``55122. Floating dry docks.''.
SEC. 3503. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE ROLE OF DOMESTIC MARITIME INDUSTRY 
IN NATIONAL SECURITY.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
        (1) the United States domestic maritime industry carries 
    hundreds of million of tons of cargo annually, supports nearly 
    500,000 jobs, and provides nearly 100 billion in annual economic 
    output;
        (2) the Nation's military sealift capacity will benefit from 
    one of the fastest growing segments of the domestic trades, 14 
    domestic trade tankers that are on order to be constructed at 
    United States shipyards as of February 1, 2014;
        (3) the domestic trades' vessel innovations that transformed 
    worldwide maritime commerce include the development of 
    containerships, self-unloading vessels, articulated tug-barges, 
    trailer barges, chemical parcel tankers, railroad-on-barge 
    carfloats, and river flotilla towing systems;
        (4) the national security benefits of the domestic maritime 
    industry are unquestioned as the Department of Defense depends on 
    United States domestic trades' fleet of container ships, roll-on/
    roll-off ships, and product tankers to carry military cargoes;
        (5) the Department of Defense benefits from a robust commercial 
    shipyard and ship repair industry and current growth in that sector 
    is particularly important as Federal budget cuts may reduce the 
    number of new constructed military vessels; and
        (6) the domestic fleet is essential to national security and 
    was a primary source of mariners needed to crew United States 
    Government-owned sealift vessels activated from reserve status 
    during Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom in the period 
    2002 through 2010.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that United 
States coastwise trade laws promote a strong domestic trade maritime 
industry, which supports the national security and economic vitality of 
the United States and the efficient operation of the United States 
transportation system.
SEC. 3504. UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY BOARD OF VISITORS.
    (a) In General.--Section 51312 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 51312. Board of Visitors
    ``(a) In General.--There shall be a Board of Visitors to the United 
States Merchant Marine Academy (referred to in this section as the 
`Board' and the `Academy', respectively) to provide independent advice 
and recommendations on matters relating to the United States Merchant 
Marine Academy.
    ``(b) Membership.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Board shall be composed of--
            ``(A) 2 Senators appointed by the Chairman of the Committee 
        on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate in 
        consultation with the ranking member of such Committee;
            ``(B) 3 Members of the House of Representatives appointed 
        by the Chairman of the Committee on Armed Services of the House 
        of Representatives in consultation with the ranking member of 
        such Committee;
            ``(C) 1 Senator appointed by the Vice President, who shall 
        be a member of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
            ``(D) 2 Members of the House of Representatives appointed 
        by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, in consultation 
        with the Minority Leader, at least 1 of whom shall be a member 
        of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives;
            ``(E) 5 individuals appointed by the President; and
            ``(F) as ex officio members--
                ``(i) the Commander of the Military Sealift Command;
                ``(ii) the Deputy Commandant for Operations of the 
            Coast Guard;
                ``(iii) the chairman of the Committee on Commerce, 
            Science, and Transportation of the Senate;
                ``(iv) the chairman of the Committee on Armed Services 
            of the House of Representatives;
                ``(v) the chairman of the Advisory Board to the Academy 
            established under section 51313; and
                ``(vi) the Member of the House of Representatives for 
            the congressional district in which the Academy is located, 
            as a nonvoting member, unless such Member of the House of 
            Representatives is appointed as a voting member of the 
            Board under subparagraph (B) or (D).
        ``(2) Presidential appointees.--Of the individuals appointed by 
    the President under paragraph (1)(E)--
            ``(A) at least 2 shall be graduates of the Academy;
            ``(B) at least 1 shall be a senior corporate officer from a 
        United States maritime shipping company that participates in 
        the Maritime Security Program, or in any Maritime 
        Administration program providing incentives for companies to 
        register their vessels in the United States, and this 
        appointment shall rotate biennially among such companies; and
            ``(C) 1 or more may be a Senate-confirmed Presidential 
        appointee, a member of the Senior Executive Service, or an 
        officer of flag-rank who from the Coast Guard, the National 
        Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or any of the military 
        services that commission graduates of the Academy, other than 
        the individuals who are members of the Board under clauses (i) 
        and (ii) of paragraph (1)(F).
        ``(3) Term of service.--
            ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        each member of the Board, other than an ex officio member under 
        paragraph (1)(F), shall serve for a term of 2 years commencing 
        at the beginning of each Congress.
            ``(B) Continuation of service.--Any member described in 
        subparagraph (A) whose term on the Board has expired, other 
        than a member appointed under any of subparagraphs (A) through 
        (D) of paragraph (1) who is no longer a Member of Congress, 
        shall continue to serve until a successor is appointed.
        ``(4) Vacancies.--If a member of the Board is no longer able to 
    serve on the Board or resigns, the Designated Federal Officer 
    selected under subsection (g)(2) shall immediately notify the 
    person who appointed such member. Not later than 60 days after that 
    notification, such person shall designate a replacement to serve 
    the remainder of such member's term.
        ``(5) Designation and responsibility of substitute board 
    members.--
            ``(A) Authority to designate.--A member of the Board under 
        clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (1)(F) or appointed under 
        subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (2) may, if unable to 
        attend or participate in an activity described in subsection 
        (d), (e), or (f), designate another individual to serve as a 
        substitute member of the Board, on a temporary basis, to attend 
        or participate in such activity.
            ``(B) Requirements.--A substitute member of the Board 
        designated under subparagraph (A) shall be--
                ``(i) an individual serving in a position for which the 
            individual was appointed by the President and confirmed by 
            the Senate;
                ``(ii) a member of the Senior Executive Service; or
                ``(iii) an officer of flag-rank who is employed by--

                    ``(I) the Coast Guard; or
                    ``(II) the Military Sealift Command.

            ``(C) Participation.--A substitute member of the Board 
        designated under subparagraph (A)--
                ``(i) shall be permitted by the Board to fully 
            participate in the proceedings and activities of the Board;
                ``(ii) shall report to the member that designated the 
            substitute member on the Board's activities not later than 
            15 days following the substitute member's participation in 
            such activities; and
                ``(iii) shall be permitted by the Board to participate 
            in the preparation of reports described in paragraph (j) 
            related to any proceedings or activities of the Board in 
            which such substitute member participates.
    ``(c) Chairperson.--
        ``(1) In general.--On a biennial basis and subject to paragraph 
    (2), the Board shall select from among its members a Member of the 
    House of Representatives or a Senator to serve as the Chairperson.
        ``(2) Rotation.--A Member of the House of Representatives and a 
    Member of the Senate shall alternately be selected as the 
    Chairperson of the Board.
        ``(3) Term.--An individual may not serve as Chairperson for 
    consecutive terms.
    ``(d) Meetings.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Board shall meet as provided for in the 
    Charter adopted under paragraph (2)(B), including at least 1 
    meeting held at the Academy.
        ``(2) Chairperson and charter.--The Designated Federal Officer 
    selected under subsection (g)(2) shall organize a meeting of the 
    Board for the purposes of--
            ``(A) selecting a Chairperson under subsection (c); and
            ``(B) adopting an official Charter for the Board, which 
        shall establish the schedule of meetings of the Board.
    ``(e) Visiting the Academy.--
        ``(1) Annual visit.--The Board shall visit the Academy annually 
    on a date selected by the Board, in consultation with the Secretary 
    of Transportation and the Superintendent of the Academy.
        ``(2) Other visits.--In cooperation with the Superintendent, 
    the Board or its members may make other visits to the Academy in 
    connection with the duties of the Board.
        ``(3) Access.--While visiting the Academy under this 
    subsection, members of the Board shall have reasonable access to 
    the grounds, facilities, midshipmen, faculty, staff, and other 
    personnel of the Academy for the purpose of carrying out the duties 
    of the Board.
    ``(f) Responsibility.--The Board shall inquire into the state of 
morale and discipline, the curriculum, instruction, physical equipment, 
fiscal affairs, and academic methods of the Academy, and other matters 
relating to the Academy that the Board decides to consider.
    ``(g) Department of Transportation Support.--The Secretary of 
Transportation shall--
        ``(1) provide support as deemed necessary by the Board for the 
    performance of the Board's functions;
        ``(2) select a Designated Federal Officer to support the 
    performance of the Board's functions; and
        ``(3) in cooperation with the Maritime Administrator and the 
    Superintendent of the Academy, advise the Board of any 
    institutional issues, consistent with applicable laws concerning 
    the disclosure of information.
    ``(h) Staff.--Each of the chairman of the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the chairman of the 
Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives may 
designate staff members of such Committee to serve, without additional 
reimbursement (except as provided in subsection (i)), as staff for the 
Board.
    ``(i) Travel Expenses.--While serving away from his or her home or 
regular place of business, a member of the Board or a staff member 
designated under subsection (h) shall be allowed travel expenses, 
including per diem in lieu of subsistence, as authorized under section 
5703 of title 5, United States Code.
    ``(j) Reports.--
        ``(1) Annual report.--Not later than 60 days after each annual 
    visit required under subsection (e)(1), the Board shall submit to 
    the President a written report of its actions, views, and 
    recommendations pertaining to the Academy.
        ``(2) Other reports.--If the members of the Board visit the 
    Academy under subsection (e)(2), the Board may--
            ``(A) prepare a report on such visit; and
            ``(B) if approved by a majority of the members of the 
        Board, submit such report to the President not later than 60 
        days after the date of the approval.
        ``(3) Advisors.--The Board may call in advisers--
            ``(A) for consultation regarding the execution of the 
        Board's responsibility under subsection (f); or
            ``(B) to assist in the preparation of a report described in 
        paragraph (1) or (2).
        ``(4) Submission.--A report submitted to the President under 
    paragraph (1) or (2) shall be concurrently submitted to--
            ``(A) the Secretary of Transportation;
            ``(B) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate; and
            ``(C) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives.''.
    (b) Deadlines.--
        (1) Selection of designated federal officer.--The Secretary of 
    Transportation shall select a Designated Federal Officer under 
    subsection (g)(2) of section 51312 of title 46, United States Code, 
    as amended by this Act, by not later than 30 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act.
        (2) Appointment of members.--Appointments under subsection 
    (b)(1) of such section shall be completed by not later than 60 days 
    after the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (3) Organization of first meeting.--Such Designated Federal 
    Officer shall organize a meeting of the Board under section (d)(2) 
    of such section by not later than 60 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act.
    (c) Continuation of Service of Current Members.--Each member of the 
Board of Visitors serving as a member of the Board on the date of the 
enactment of this Act shall continue to serve on the Board for the 
remainder of such member's term.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

SEC. 4001. AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS IN FUNDING TABLES.
    (a) In General.--Whenever a funding table in this division 
specifies a dollar amount authorized for a project, program, or 
activity, the obligation and expenditure of the specified dollar amount 
for the project, program, or activity is hereby authorized, subject to 
the availability of appropriations.
    (b) Merit-based Decisions.--A decision to commit, obligate, or 
expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of a dollar 
amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
        (1) be based on merit-based selection procedures in accordance 
    with the requirements of sections 2304(k) and 2374 of title 10, 
    United States Code, or on competitive procedures; and
        (2) comply with other applicable provisions of law.
    (c) Relationship to Transfer and Programming Authority.--An amount 
specified in the funding tables in this division may be transferred or 
reprogrammed under a transfer or reprogramming authority provided by 
another provision of this Act or by other law. The transfer or 
reprogramming of an amount specified in such funding tables shall not 
count against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under 
section 1001 or section 1522 of this Act or any other provision of law, 
unless such transfer or reprogramming would move funds between 
appropriation accounts.
    (d) Applicability to Classified Annex.--This section applies to any 
classified annex that accompanies this Act.
    (e) Oral and Written Communications.--No oral or written 
communication concerning any amount specified in the funding tables in 
this division shall supersede the requirements of this section.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
            SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2015        Agreement
      Line                 Item              Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  FIXED WING
002               UTILITY F/W AIRCRAFT.          13,617          13,617
003               AERIAL COMMON SENSOR          185,090         136,290
                   (ACS) (MIP).
                      Program decrease.                        [-48,800]
004               MQ-1 UAV.............         190,581         239,581
                      Extended range                            [49,000]
                      modifications Per
                      Army UFR.
005               RQ-11 (RAVEN)........           3,964           3,964
                  ROTARY
006               HELICOPTER, LIGHT             416,617         416,617
                   UTILITY (LUH).
007               AH-64 APACHE BLOCK            494,009         494,009
                   IIIA REMAN.
008                  ADVANCE                    157,338         157,338
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
012               UH-60 BLACKHAWK M           1,237,001       1,340,027
                   MODEL (MYP).
                      ARNG                                     [103,026]
                      Modernization-6
                      additional UH-60M
                      aircraft.
013                  ADVANCE                    132,138         132,138
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
014               CH-47 HELICOPTER.....         892,504         892,504
015                  ADVANCE                    102,361         102,361
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
016               MQ-1 PAYLOAD (MIP)...          26,913          26,913
018               GUARDRAIL MODS (MIP).          14,182          14,182
019               MULTI SENSOR ABN              131,892         131,892
                   RECON (MIP).
020               AH-64 MODS...........         181,869         181,869
021               CH-47 CARGO                    32,092          32,092
                   HELICOPTER MODS
                   (MYP).
022               UTILITY/CARGO                  15,029          15,029
                   AIRPLANE MODS.
023               UTILITY HELICOPTER             76,515          76,515
                   MODS.
025               NETWORK AND MISSION           114,182         114,182
                   PLAN.
026               COMMS, NAV                    115,795         115,795
                   SURVEILLANCE.
027               GATM ROLLUP..........          54,277          54,277
028               RQ-7 UAV MODS........         125,380         125,380
                  GROUND SUPPORT
                   AVIONICS
029               AIRCRAFT                       66,450          98,850
                   SURVIVABILITY
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Army requested                            [32,400]
                      realignment.
030               SURVIVABILITY CM.....                           7,800
                      Army requested                             [7,800]
                      realignment.
031               CMWS.................         107,364          60,364
                      Army requested                           [-47,000]
                      reduction.
                  OTHER SUPPORT
032               AVIONICS SUPPORT                6,847           6,847
                   EQUIPMENT.
033               COMMON GROUND                  29,231          29,231
                   EQUIPMENT.
034               AIRCREW INTEGRATED             48,081          48,081
                   SYSTEMS.
035               AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL..         127,232         127,232
036               INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES           1,203           1,203
037               LAUNCHER, 2.75 ROCKET           2,931           2,931
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT         5,102,685       5,199,111
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  SURFACE-TO-AIR
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
002               LOWER TIER AIR AND            110,300         110,300
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   (AMD).
003               MSE MISSILE..........         384,605         384,605
                  AIR-TO-SURFACE
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
004               HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY.           4,452           4,452
                  ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT
                   MISSILE SYS
005               JAVELIN (AAWS-M)               77,668          77,668
                   SYSTEM SUMMARY.
006               TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY.          50,368          50,368
007                  ADVANCE                     19,984          19,984
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
008               GUIDED MLRS ROCKET            127,145         127,145
                   (GMLRS).
009               MLRS REDUCED RANGE             21,274          21,274
                   PRACTICE ROCKETS
                   (RRPR).
                  MODIFICATIONS
012               PATRIOT MODS.........         131,838         131,838
013               STINGER MODS.........           1,355           1,355
014               AVENGER MODS.........           5,611           5,611
015               ITAS/TOW MODS........          19,676          19,676
016               MLRS MODS............          10,380          10,380
017               HIMARS MODIFICATIONS.           6,008           6,008
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
018               SPARES AND REPAIR              36,930          36,930
                   PARTS.
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
019               AIR DEFENSE TARGETS..           3,657           3,657
020               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           1,522           1,522
                   (MISSILES).
021               PRODUCTION BASE                 4,710           4,710
                   SUPPORT.
                       TOTAL MISSILE          1,017,483       1,017,483
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV,
                   ARMY
                  TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
001               STRYKER VEHICLE......         385,110         435,110
                      Unfunded                                  [50,000]
                      requirement_fourt
                      h DVH brigade set.
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
002               STRYKER (MOD)........          39,683          39,683
003               FIST VEHICLE (MOD)...          26,759          26,759
004               BRADLEY PROGRAM (MOD)         107,506         144,506
                      Army unfunded                             [37,000]
                      priority and
                      industrial base
                      risk mitigation.
005               HOWITZER, MED SP FT            45,411          45,411
                   155MM M109A6 (MOD).
006               PALADIN INTEGRATED            247,400         247,400
                   MANAGEMENT (PIM).
007               IMPROVED RECOVERY              50,451         126,364
                   VEHICLE (M88A2
                   HERCULES).
                      Army unfunded                             [75,913]
                      priority and
                      industrial base
                      risk mitigation.
008               ASSAULT BRIDGE (MOD).           2,473           2,473
009               ASSAULT BREACHER               36,583          36,583
                   VEHICLE.
010               M88 FOV MODS.........           1,975           1,975
011               JOINT ASSAULT BRIDGE.          49,462          34,362
                      Early to need....                        [-15,100]
012               M1 ABRAMS TANK (MOD).         237,023         237,023
013               ABRAMS UPGRADE                                120,000
                   PROGRAM.
                      Industrial Base                          [120,000]
                      initiative.
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
014               PRODUCTION BASE                 6,478           6,478
                   SUPPORT (TCV-WTCV).
                  WEAPONS & OTHER
                   COMBAT VEHICLES
016               MORTAR SYSTEMS.......           5,012           5,012
017               XM320 GRENADE                  28,390          28,390
                   LAUNCHER MODULE
                   (GLM).
018               COMPACT SEMI-                     148             148
                   AUTOMATIC SNIPER
                   SYSTEM.
019               CARBINE..............          29,366          20,616
                      Army requested                            [-8,750]
                      realignment.
021               COMMON REMOTELY                 8,409           8,409
                   OPERATED WEAPONS
                   STATION.
022               HANDGUN..............           3,957           3,957
                  MOD OF WEAPONS AND
                   OTHER COMBAT VEH
024               M777 MODS............          18,166          18,166
025               M4 CARBINE MODS......           3,446           6,446
                      Army requested                             [3,000]
                      realignment.
026               M2 50 CAL MACHINE GUN          25,296          25,296
                   MODS.
027               M249 SAW MACHINE GUN            5,546           5,546
                   MODS.
028               M240 MEDIUM MACHINE             4,635           2,635
                   GUN MODS.
                      Army requested                            [-2,000]
                      realignment.
029               SNIPER RIFLES                   4,079           4,079
                   MODIFICATIONS.
030               M119 MODIFICATIONS...          72,718          72,718
031               M16 RIFLE MODS.......           1,952               0
                      At Army request                           [-1,952]
                      transfer to WTCV
                      31 and RDTEA 70
                      and 86.
032               MORTAR MODIFICATION..           8,903           8,903
033               MODIFICATIONS LESS              2,089           2,089
                   THAN $5.0M (WOCV-
                   WTCV).
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
034               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           2,005           2,005
                   (WOCV-WTCV).
035               PRODUCTION BASE                 8,911           8,911
                   SUPPORT (WOCV-WTCV).
036               INDUSTRIAL                        414             414
                   PREPAREDNESS.
037               SMALL ARMS EQUIPMENT            1,682           1,682
                   (SOLDIER ENH PROG).
                       TOTAL                  1,471,438       1,729,549
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       W&TCV, ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, ARMY
                  SMALL/MEDIUM CAL
                   AMMUNITION
001               CTG, 5.56MM, ALL               34,943          34,943
                   TYPES.
002               CTG, 7.62MM, ALL               12,418          12,418
                   TYPES.
003               CTG, HANDGUN, ALL               9,655           9,655
                   TYPES.
004               CTG, .50 CAL, ALL              29,304          29,304
                   TYPES.
006               CTG, 25MM, ALL TYPES.           8,181           8,181
007               CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES.          52,667          52,667
008               CTG, 40MM, ALL TYPES.          40,904          40,904
                  MORTAR AMMUNITION
009               60MM MORTAR, ALL               41,742          41,742
                   TYPES.
010               81MM MORTAR, ALL               42,433          42,433
                   TYPES.
011               120MM MORTAR, ALL              39,365          39,365
                   TYPES.
                  TANK AMMUNITION
012               CARTRIDGES, TANK,             101,900         101,900
                   105MM AND 120MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
                  ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
013               ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES,          37,455          37,455
                   75MM & 105MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
014               ARTILLERY PROJECTILE,          47,023          47,023
                   155MM, ALL TYPES.
015               PROJ 155MM EXTENDED            35,672          35,672
                   RANGE M982.
016               ARTILLERY                      94,010          74,010
                   PROPELLANTS, FUZES
                   AND PRIMERS, ALL.
                      Precision Guided                         [-20,000]
                      Kits Schedule
                      Delay.
                  ROCKETS
019               SHOULDER LAUNCHED                 945             945
                   MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.
020               ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL          27,286          27,286
                   TYPES.
                  OTHER AMMUNITION
021               DEMOLITION MUNITIONS,          22,899          22,899
                   ALL TYPES.
022               GRENADES, ALL TYPES..          22,751          22,751
023               SIGNALS, ALL TYPES...           7,082           7,082
024               SIMULATORS, ALL TYPES          11,638          11,638
                  MISCELLANEOUS
025               AMMO COMPONENTS, ALL            3,594           3,594
                   TYPES.
027               CAD/PAD ALL TYPES....           5,430           5,430
028               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              8,337           8,337
                   MILLION (AMMO).
029               AMMUNITION PECULIAR            14,906          14,906
                   EQUIPMENT.
030               FIRST DESTINATION              14,349          14,349
                   TRANSPORTATION
                   (AMMO).
031               CLOSEOUT LIABILITIES.             111             111
                  PRODUCTION BASE
                   SUPPORT
032               PROVISION OF                  148,092         148,092
                   INDUSTRIAL
                   FACILITIES.
033               CONVENTIONAL                  113,881         113,881
                   MUNITIONS
                   DEMILITARIZATION.
034               ARMS INITIATIVE......           2,504           2,504
                       TOTAL                  1,031,477       1,011,477
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, ARMY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
001               TACTICAL TRAILERS/              7,987           7,987
                   DOLLY SETS.
002               SEMITRAILERS,                     160             160
                   FLATBED:.
004               JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL          164,615         164,615
                   VEHICLE.
005               FAMILY OF MEDIUM                               50,000
                   TACTICAL VEH (FMTV).
                      Additional FMTVs -                        [50,000]
                       Industrial Base
                      initiative.
006               FIRETRUCKS &                    8,415           8,415
                   ASSOCIATED
                   FIREFIGHTING EQUIP.
007               FAMILY OF HEAVY                28,425          78,425
                   TACTICAL VEHICLES
                   (FHTV).
                      Additional HEMTT                          [50,000]
                      ESP Vehicles-
                      Industrial Base
                      initiative.
008               PLS ESP..............          89,263          89,263
013               TACTICAL WHEELED               38,226          38,226
                   VEHICLE PROTECTION
                   KITS.
014               MODIFICATION OF IN             91,173          83,173
                   SVC EQUIP.
                      Early to need....                         [-8,000]
015               MINE-RESISTANT AMBUSH-         14,731          14,731
                   PROTECTED (MRAP)
                   MODS.
                  NON-TACTICAL VEHICLES
016               HEAVY ARMORED SEDAN..             175             175
017               PASSENGER CARRYING              1,338           1,338
                   VEHICLES.
018               NONTACTICAL VEHICLES,          11,101          11,101
                   OTHER.
                  COMM_JOINT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
019               WIN-T_GROUND FORCES           763,087         638,087
                   TACTICAL NETWORK.
                      Point of Presence                       [-125,000]
                      (POP) and Soldier
                      Network Extension
                      (SNE) delay.
020               SIGNAL MODERNIZATION           21,157          21,157
                   PROGRAM.
021               JOINT INCIDENT SITE             7,915           7,915
                   COMMUNICATIONS
                   CAPABILITY.
022               JCSE EQUIPMENT                  5,440           5,440
                   (USREDCOM).
                  COMM_SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
023               DEFENSE ENTERPRISE            118,085         118,085
                   WIDEBAND SATCOM
                   SYSTEMS.
024               TRANSPORTABLE                  13,999          13,999
                   TACTICAL COMMAND
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
025               SHF TERM.............           6,494           6,494
026               NAVSTAR GLOBAL                  1,635           1,635
                   POSITIONING SYSTEM
                   (SPACE).
027               SMART-T (SPACE)......          13,554          13,554
028               GLOBAL BRDCST SVC_GBS          18,899          18,899
029               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP             2,849           2,849
                   (TAC SAT).
030               ENROUTE MISSION               100,000         100,000
                   COMMAND (EMC).
                  COMM_COMBAT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
033               JOINT TACTICAL RADIO          175,711         125,711
                   SYSTEM.
                      Unobligated                              [-50,000]
                      balances.
034               MID-TIER NETWORKING             9,692           4,692
                   VEHICULAR RADIO
                   (MNVR).
                      Unobligated                               [-5,000]
                      balances.
035               RADIO TERMINAL SET,            17,136          17,136
                   MIDS LVT(2).
037               AMC CRITICAL                   22,099          22,099
                   ITEMS_OPA2.
038               TRACTOR DESK.........           3,724           3,724
039               SPIDER APLA REMOTE                969             969
                   CONTROL UNIT.
040               SOLDIER ENHANCEMENT               294             294
                   PROGRAM COMM/
                   ELECTRONICS.
041               TACTICAL                       24,354          24,354
                   COMMUNICATIONS AND
                   PROTECTIVE SYSTEM.
042               UNIFIED COMMAND SUITE          17,445          17,445
043               RADIO, IMPROVED HF              1,028           1,028
                   (COTS) FAMILY.
044               FAMILY OF MED COMM             22,614          22,614
                   FOR COMBAT CASUALTY
                   CARE.
                  COMM_INTELLIGENCE
                   COMM
046               CI AUTOMATION                   1,519           1,519
                   ARCHITECTURE.
047               ARMY CA/MISO GPF               12,478          12,478
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  INFORMATION SECURITY
050               INFORMATION SYSTEM              2,113           2,113
                   SECURITY PROGRAM-
                   ISSP.
051               COMMUNICATIONS                 69,646          69,646
                   SECURITY (COMSEC).
                  COMM_LONG HAUL
                   COMMUNICATIONS
052               BASE SUPPORT                   28,913          28,913
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
                  COMM_BASE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
053               INFORMATION SYSTEMS..          97,091          97,091
054               DEFENSE MESSAGE                   246             246
                   SYSTEM (DMS).
055               EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT            5,362           5,362
                   MODERNIZATION
                   PROGRAM.
056               INSTALLATION INFO              79,965          79,965
                   INFRASTRUCTURE MOD
                   PROGRAM.
                  ELECT EQUIP_TACT INT
                   REL ACT (TIARA)
060               JTT/CIBS-M...........             870             870
061               PROPHET GROUND.......          55,896          55,896
063               DCGS-A (MIP).........         128,207         128,207
064               JOINT TACTICAL GROUND           5,286           5,286
                   STATION (JTAGS).
065               TROJAN (MIP).........          12,614          12,614
066               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP             3,901           3,901
                   (INTEL SPT) (MIP).
067               CI HUMINT AUTO                  7,392           7,392
                   REPRTING AND
                   COLL(CHARCS).
                  ELECT
                   EQUIP_ELECTRONIC
                   WARFARE (EW)
068               LIGHTWEIGHT COUNTER            24,828          24,828
                   MORTAR RADAR.
070               AIR VIGILANCE (AV)...           7,000           7,000
072               COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/            1,285           1,285
                   SECURITY
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
                  ELECT EQUIP_TACTICAL
                   SURV. (TAC SURV)
075               SENTINEL MODS........          44,305          44,305
076               NIGHT VISION DEVICES.         160,901         160,901
078               SMALL TACTICAL                 18,520          18,520
                   OPTICAL RIFLE
                   MOUNTED MLRF.
080               INDIRECT FIRE                  68,296          68,296
                   PROTECTION FAMILY OF
                   SYSTEMS.
081               FAMILY OF WEAPON               49,205          34,205
                   SIGHTS (FWS).
                      Early to need....                        [-15,000]
082               ARTILLERY ACCURACY              4,896           4,896
                   EQUIP.
083               PROFILER.............           3,115           3,115
084               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP             4,186           4,186
                   (FIREFINDER RADARS).
085               JOINT BATTLE                   97,892          87,892
                   COMMAND_PLATFORM
                   (JBC-P).
                      Schedule delay...                        [-10,000]
086               JOINT EFFECTS                  27,450          27,450
                   TARGETING SYSTEM
                   (JETS).
087               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP            14,085          14,085
                   (LLDR).
088               MORTAR FIRE CONTROL            29,040          29,040
                   SYSTEM.
089               COUNTERFIRE RADARS...         209,050         159,050
                      Excessive LRIP/                          [-50,000]
                      concurrency costs.
                  ELECT EQUIP_TACTICAL
                   C2 SYSTEMS
092               FIRE SUPPORT C2                13,823          13,823
                   FAMILY.
095               AIR & MSL DEFENSE              27,374          27,374
                   PLANNING & CONTROL
                   SYS.
097               LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE             2,508           2,508
                   SUPPORT (LCSS).
099               NETWORK MANAGEMENT             21,524          21,524
                   INITIALIZATION AND
                   SERVICE.
100               MANEUVER CONTROL               95,455          95,455
                   SYSTEM (MCS).
101               GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT         118,600         118,600
                   SYSTEM-ARMY (GCSS-A).
102               INTEGRATED PERSONNEL           32,970          32,970
                   AND PAY SYSTEM-ARMY
                   (IPP.
104               RECONNAISSANCE AND             10,113          10,113
                   SURVEYING INSTRUMENT
                   SET.
                  ELECT
                   EQUIP_AUTOMATION
105               ARMY TRAINING                   9,015           9,015
                   MODERNIZATION.
106               AUTOMATED DATA                155,223         152,282
                   PROCESSING EQUIP.
                      Reduce IT                                 [-2,941]
                      procurement.
107               GENERAL FUND                   16,581          16,581
                   ENTERPRISE BUSINESS
                   SYSTEMS FAM.
108               HIGH PERF COMPUTING            65,252          65,252
                   MOD PGM (HPCMP).
110               RESERVE COMPONENT              17,631          17,631
                   AUTOMATION SYS
                   (RCAS).
                  ELECT EQUIP_AUDIO
                   VISUAL SYS (A/V)
112               ITEMS LESS THAN $5M             5,437           5,437
                   (SURVEYING
                   EQUIPMENT).
                  ELECT EQUIP_SUPPORT
113               PRODUCTION BASE                   426             426
                   SUPPORT (C-E).
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
114A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           3,707           3,707
                  CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE
                   EQUIPMENT
115               FAMILY OF NON-LETHAL              937             937
                   EQUIPMENT (FNLE).
116               BASE DEFENSE SYSTEMS            1,930           1,930
                   (BDS).
117               CBRN DEFENSE.........          17,468          17,468
                  BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
119               TACTICAL BRIDGE,                5,442           5,442
                   FLOAT-RIBBON.
120               COMMON BRIDGE                  11,013          11,013
                   TRANSPORTER (CBT)
                   RECAP.
                  ENGINEER (NON-
                   CONSTRUCTION)
                   EQUIPMENT
121               GRND STANDOFF MINE             37,649          33,249
                   DETECTN SYSM
                   (GSTAMIDS).
                      Early to need....                         [-4,400]
122               HUSKY MOUNTED                  18,545          18,545
                   DETECTION SYSTEM
                   (HMDS).
123               ROBOTIC COMBAT                  4,701           4,701
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM
                   (RCSS).
124               EOD ROBOTICS SYSTEMS            6,346           6,346
                   RECAPITALIZATION.
125               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE             15,856          15,856
                   DISPOSAL EQPMT (EOD
                   EQPMT).
126               REMOTE DEMOLITION               4,485           4,485
                   SYSTEMS.
127               < $5M, COUNTERMINE              4,938           4,938
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  COMBAT SERVICE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
128               HEATERS AND ECU'S....           9,235           9,235
130               SOLDIER ENHANCEMENT..           1,677           1,677
131               PERSONNEL RECOVERY             16,728          16,728
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM
                   (PRSS).
132               GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM          84,761          84,761
134               FIELD FEEDING                  15,179          15,179
                   EQUIPMENT.
135               CARGO AERIAL DEL &             28,194          28,194
                   PERSONNEL PARACHUTE
                   SYSTEM.
137               FAMILY OF ENGR COMBAT          41,967          41,967
                   AND CONSTRUCTION
                   SETS.
138               ITEMS LESS THAN $5M            20,090          20,090
                   (ENG SPT).
                  PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
139               QUALITY SURVEILLANCE            1,435           1,435
                   EQUIPMENT.
140               DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS,          40,692          40,692
                   PETROLEUM & WATER.
                  MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
141               COMBAT SUPPORT                 46,957          46,957
                   MEDICAL.
                  MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
142               MOBILE MAINTENANCE             23,758          23,758
                   EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS.
143               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           2,789           2,789
                   (MAINT EQ).
                  CONSTRUCTION
                   EQUIPMENT
144               GRADER, ROAD MTZD,              5,827           5,827
                   HVY, 6X4 (CCE).
145               SCRAPERS, EARTHMOVING          14,926          14,926
147               COMPACTOR............           4,348           4,348
148               HYDRAULIC EXCAVATOR..           4,938           4,938
149               TRACTOR, FULL TRACKED          34,071          34,071
150               ALL TERRAIN CRANES...           4,938           4,938
151               PLANT, ASPHALT MIXING             667             667
153               ENHANCED RAPID                 14,924          14,924
                   AIRFIELD
                   CONSTRUCTION CAPAP.
154               CONST EQUIP ESP......          15,933          15,933
155               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           6,749           6,749
                   (CONST EQUIP).
                  RAIL FLOAT
                   CONTAINERIZATION
                   EQUIPMENT
156               ARMY WATERCRAFT ESP..          10,509          10,509
157               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           2,166           2,166
                   (FLOAT/RAIL).
                  GENERATORS
158               GENERATORS AND                115,190         105,190
                   ASSOCIATED EQUIP.
                      Cost savings from                        [-10,000]
                      new contract.
                  MATERIAL HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
160               FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS..          14,327          14,327
                  TRAINING EQUIPMENT
161               COMBAT TRAINING                65,062          65,062
                   CENTERS SUPPORT.
162               TRAINING DEVICES,             101,295         101,295
                   NONSYSTEM.
163               CLOSE COMBAT TACTICAL          13,406          13,406
                   TRAINER.
164               AVIATION COMBINED              14,440          14,440
                   ARMS TACTICAL
                   TRAINER.
165               GAMING TECHNOLOGY IN           10,165          10,165
                   SUPPORT OF ARMY
                   TRAINING.
                  TEST MEASURE AND DIG
                   EQUIPMENT (TMD)
166               CALIBRATION SETS                5,726           5,726
                   EQUIPMENT.
167               INTEGRATED FAMILY OF           37,482          37,482
                   TEST EQUIPMENT
                   (IFTE).
168               TEST EQUIPMENT                 16,061          16,061
                   MODERNIZATION
                   (TEMOD).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
170               RAPID EQUIPPING                 2,380           2,380
                   SOLDIER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT.
171               PHYSICAL SECURITY              30,686          30,686
                   SYSTEMS (OPA3).
172               BASE LEVEL COMMON               1,008           1,008
                   EQUIPMENT.
173               MODIFICATION OF IN-            98,559          83,559
                   SVC EQUIPMENT (OPA-
                   3).
                      Early to                                 [-15,000]
                      need_watercraft
                      C4ISR.
174               PRODUCTION BASE                 1,697           1,697
                   SUPPORT (OTH).
175               SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR          25,394          25,394
                   USER TESTING.
176               AMC CRITICAL ITEMS             12,975          12,975
                   OPA3.
                  OPA2
180               INITIAL SPARES_C&E...          50,032          50,032
                       TOTAL OTHER            4,893,634       4,698,293
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  JOINT IMPR EXPLOSIVE
                   DEV DEFEAT FUND
                  STAFF AND
                   INFRASTRUCTURE
004               OPERATIONS...........         115,058               0
                      Transfer of                              [-65,463]
                      JIEDDO to
                      Overseas
                      Contingency
                      Operations.
                      Unjustified                              [-49,595]
                      request.
                       TOTAL JOINT IMPR         115,058               0
                       EXPLOSIVE DEV
                       DEFEAT FUND.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  COMBAT AIRCRAFT
001               EA-18G...............          43,547         493,547
                      Additional EA-18G                        [450,000]
                      aircraft.
005               JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER          610,652         610,652
                   CV.
006                  ADVANCE                     29,400          29,400
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
007               JSF STOVL............       1,200,410       1,200,410
008                  ADVANCE                    143,885         143,885
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
009               V-22 (MEDIUM LIFT)...       1,487,000       1,487,000
010                  ADVANCE                     45,920          45,920
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
011               H-1 UPGRADES (UH-1Y/          778,757         778,757
                   AH-1Z).
012                  ADVANCE                     80,926          75,626
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                      Advance                                   [-5,300]
                      procurement
                      efficiencies.
013               MH-60S (MYP).........         210,209         210,209
015               MH-60R (MYP).........         933,882         878,882
                      CVN 73 Refueling                         [-53,400]
                      and Complex
                      Overhaul (RCOH).
                      Shutdown funding                          [-1,600]
                      ahead of need.
016                  ADVANCE                    106,686         106,686
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
017               P-8A POSEIDON........       2,003,327       1,985,927
                      Anticipated unit                         [-11,300]
                      price savings.
                      Unjustified                               [-6,100]
                      growth--
                      production
                      engineering
                      support.
018                  ADVANCE                     48,457          48,457
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
019               E-2D ADV HAWKEYE.....         819,870         819,870
020                  ADVANCE                    225,765         225,765
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
023               KC-130J..............          92,290          92,290
026                  ADVANCE                     37,445          37,445
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
027               MQ-8 UAV.............          40,663          40,663
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
029               EA-6 SERIES..........          10,993          10,993
030               AEA SYSTEMS..........          34,768          34,768
031               AV-8 SERIES..........          65,472          65,472
032               ADVERSARY............           8,418           8,418
033               F-18 SERIES..........         679,177         679,177
034               H-46 SERIES..........             480             480
036               H-53 SERIES..........          38,159          38,159
037               SH-60 SERIES.........         108,850         108,850
038               H-1 SERIES...........          45,033          45,033
039               EP-3 SERIES..........          32,890          32,890
040               P-3 SERIES...........           2,823           2,823
041               E-2 SERIES...........          21,208          21,208
042               TRAINER A/C SERIES...          12,608          12,608
044               C-130 SERIES.........          40,378          40,378
045               FEWSG................             640             640
046               CARGO/TRANSPORT A/C             4,635           4,635
                   SERIES.
047               E-6 SERIES...........         212,876         212,876
048               EXECUTIVE HELICOPTERS          71,328          71,328
                   SERIES.
049               SPECIAL PROJECT                21,317          21,317
                   AIRCRAFT.
050               T-45 SERIES..........          90,052          90,052
051               POWER PLANT CHANGES..          19,094          19,094
052               JPATS SERIES.........           1,085           1,085
054               COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT.         155,644         155,644
055               COMMON AVIONICS               157,531         157,531
                   CHANGES.
056               COMMON DEFENSIVE                1,958           1,958
                   WEAPON SYSTEM.
057               ID SYSTEMS...........          38,880          38,880
058               P-8 SERIES...........          29,797          29,797
059               MAGTF EW FOR AVIATION          14,770          14,770
060               MQ-8 SERIES..........           8,741           8,741
061               RQ-7 SERIES..........           2,542           2,542
062               V-22 (TILT/ROTOR              135,584         135,584
                   ACFT) OSPREY.
063               F-35 STOVL SERIES....         285,968         285,968
064               F-35 CV SERIES.......          20,502          20,502
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
065               SPARES AND REPAIR           1,229,651       1,107,506
                   PARTS.
                      Reduce rate of                          [-122,145]
                      growth in
                      replenishment
                      spares.
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIP & FACILITIES
066               COMMON GROUND                 418,355         398,488
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Unobligated                              [-19,867]
                      balances.
067               AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL            23,843          23,843
                   FACILITIES.
068               WAR CONSUMABLES......          15,939          15,939
069               OTHER PRODUCTION                5,630           5,630
                   CHARGES.
070               SPECIAL SUPPORT                65,839          65,839
                   EQUIPMENT.
071               FIRST DESTINATION               1,768           1,768
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT        13,074,317      13,304,605
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  WEAPONS PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   MISSILES
001               TRIDENT II MODS......       1,190,455       1,185,455
                      Guidance hardware                         [-5,000]
                      cost growth.
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
002               MISSILE INDUSTRIAL              5,671           5,671
                   FACILITIES.
                  STRATEGIC MISSILES
003               TOMAHAWK.............         194,258         276,258
                      Minimum                                   [82,000]
                      sustaining rate
                      increase.
                  TACTICAL MISSILES
004               AMRAAM...............          32,165          22,165
                      Program decrease.                        [-10,000]
005               SIDEWINDER...........          73,928          71,948
                      Block II AUR cost                         [-1,980]
                      growth.
006               JSOW.................         130,759         128,200
                      AUR cost growth..                         [-2,559]
007               STANDARD MISSILE.....         445,836         444,836
                      Installation,                             [-1,000]
                      checkout, and
                      training growth.
008               RAM..................          80,792          80,792
011               STAND OFF PRECISION             1,810           1,810
                   GUIDED MUNITIONS
                   (SOPGM).
012               AERIAL TARGETS.......          48,046          48,046
013               OTHER MISSILE SUPPORT           3,295           3,295
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   MISSILES
014               ESSM.................         119,434         119,434
015               HARM MODS............         111,739         106,489
                      AUR kit cost                              [-3,250]
                      growth.
                      Tooling and test                          [-2,000]
                      equipment growth.
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
016               WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL              2,531           2,531
                   FACILITIES.
017               FLEET SATELLITE COMM          208,700         206,700
                   FOLLOW-ON.
                      Excess to need...                         [-2,000]
                  ORDNANCE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
018               ORDNANCE SUPPORT               73,211          73,211
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  TORPEDOES AND RELATED
                   EQUIP
019               SSTD.................           6,562           6,562
020               MK-48 TORPEDO........          14,153          14,153
021               ASW TARGETS..........           2,515           2,515
                  MOD OF TORPEDOES AND
                   RELATED EQUIP
022               MK-54 TORPEDO MODS...          98,928          98,928
023               MK-48 TORPEDO ADCAP            46,893          46,893
                   MODS.
024               QUICKSTRIKE MINE.....           6,966           6,966
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
025               TORPEDO SUPPORT                52,670          52,670
                   EQUIPMENT.
026               ASW RANGE SUPPORT....           3,795           3,795
                  DESTINATION
                   TRANSPORTATION
027               FIRST DESTINATION               3,692           3,692
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                  GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
028               SMALL ARMS AND                 13,240          13,240
                   WEAPONS.
                  MODIFICATION OF GUNS
                   AND GUN MOUNTS
029               CIWS MODS............          75,108          75,108
030               COAST GUARD WEAPONS..          18,948          18,948
031               GUN MOUNT MODS.......          62,651          62,651
033               AIRBORNE MINE                  15,006          15,006
                   NEUTRALIZATION
                   SYSTEMS.
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
035               SPARES AND REPAIR              74,188          74,188
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL WEAPONS          3,217,945       3,272,156
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF AMMO,
                   NAVY & MC
                  NAVY AMMUNITION
001               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS         107,069         107,069
002               AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL          70,396          70,396
                   TYPES.
003               MACHINE GUN                    20,284          20,284
                   AMMUNITION.
004               PRACTICE BOMBS.......          26,701          26,701
005               CARTRIDGES & CART              53,866          53,866
                   ACTUATED DEVICES.
006               AIR EXPENDABLE                 59,294          59,294
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
007               JATOS................           2,766           2,766
008               LRLAP 6" LONG RANGE           113,092         113,092
                   ATTACK PROJECTILE.
009               5 INCH/54 GUN                  35,702          35,702
                   AMMUNITION.
010               INTERMEDIATE CALIBER           36,475          26,837
                   GUN AMMUNITION.
                      MK-296 57MM                               [-9,638]
                      contract delay.
011               OTHER SHIP GUN                 43,906          43,906
                   AMMUNITION.
012               SMALL ARMS & LANDING           51,535          51,535
                   PARTY AMMO.
013               PYROTECHNIC AND                11,652          11,652
                   DEMOLITION.
014               AMMUNITION LESS THAN            4,473           4,473
                   $5 MILLION.
                  MARINE CORPS
                   AMMUNITION
015               SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION          31,708          31,708
016               LINEAR CHARGES, ALL               692             692
                   TYPES.
017               40 MM, ALL TYPES.....          13,630          13,630
018               60MM, ALL TYPES......           2,261           2,261
019               81MM, ALL TYPES......           1,496           1,496
020               120MM, ALL TYPES.....          14,855          14,855
022               GRENADES, ALL TYPES..           4,000           4,000
023               ROCKETS, ALL TYPES...          16,853          16,853
024               ARTILLERY, ALL TYPES.          14,772          14,772
026               FUZE, ALL TYPES......           9,972           9,972
027               NON LETHALS..........             998             998
028               AMMO MODERNIZATION...          12,319          12,319
029               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             11,178          11,178
                   MILLION.
                       TOTAL                    771,945         762,307
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMO, NAVY & MC.
 
                  SHIPBUILDING &
                   CONVERSION, NAVY
                  OTHER WARSHIPS
001               CARRIER REPLACEMENT         1,300,000       1,300,000
                   PROGRAM.
002               VIRGINIA CLASS              3,553,254       3,553,254
                   SUBMARINE.
003                  ADVANCE                  2,330,325       2,330,325
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
004               CVN REFUELING                                 483,600
                   OVERHAULS.
                      CVN 73 Refueling                         [483,600]
                      and Complex
                      Overhaul (RCOH).
006               DDG 1000.............         419,532         419,532
007               DDG-51...............       2,671,415       2,671,415
008                  ADVANCE                    134,039         134,039
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
009               LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP.       1,427,049       1,427,049
                  AMPHIBIOUS SHIPS
010               LPD-17...............          12,565         812,565
                      Incremental                              [800,000]
                      funding for LPD-
                      28.
014               LHA REPLACEMENT                29,093          29,093
                   ADVANCE PROCURMENT
                   (CY).
015               JOINT HIGH SPEED                4,590               0
                   VESSEL.
                      Program closeout                          [-4,590]
                      ahead of need.
                  AUXILIARIES, CRAFT
                   AND PRIOR YR PROGRAM
                   COST
016               MOORED TRAINING SHIP.         737,268         737,268
017                  ADVANCE                     64,388          64,388
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
018               OUTFITTING...........         546,104         521,104
                      Early to need....                        [-25,000]
019               SHIP TO SHORE                 123,233         123,233
                   CONNECTOR.
020               LCAC SLEP............          40,485          40,485
021               COMPLETION OF PY            1,007,285       1,007,285
                   SHIPBUILDING
                   PROGRAMS.
                       TOTAL                 14,400,625      15,654,635
                       SHIPBUILDING &
                       CONVERSION, NAVY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  SHIP PROPULSION
                   EQUIPMENT
001               LM-2500 GAS TURBINE..           7,822           7,822
002               ALLISON 501K GAS                2,155           2,155
                   TURBINE.
003               HYBRID ELECTRIC DRIVE          22,704          19,278
                   (HED).
                      Excess                                    [-1,926]
                      installation
                      funding.
                      Modification                              [-1,500]
                      funding ahead of
                      need.
                  GENERATORS
004               SURFACE COMBATANT              29,120          26,664
                   HM&E.
                      Surface Combatant                         [-2,456]
                      HM&E.
                  NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT
005               OTHER NAVIGATION               45,431          44,894
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      AN/WSN-9                                    [-537]
                      procurement ahead
                      of need.
                  PERISCOPES
006               SUB PERISCOPES &               60,970          57,221
                   IMAGING EQUIP.
                      Excess                                      [-649]
                      installation
                      funding.
                      Interim                                   [-3,100]
                      contractor
                      support carryover.
                  OTHER SHIPBOARD
                   EQUIPMENT
007               DDG MOD..............         338,569         338,569
008               FIREFIGHTING                   15,486          15,486
                   EQUIPMENT.
009               COMMAND AND CONTROL             2,219           2,219
                   SWITCHBOARD.
010               LHA/LHD MIDLIFE......          17,928          17,928
011               LCC 19/20 EXTENDED             22,025          22,025
                   SERVICE LIFE PROGRAM.
012               POLLUTION CONTROL              12,607          12,607
                   EQUIPMENT.
013               SUBMARINE SUPPORT              16,492          16,492
                   EQUIPMENT.
014               VIRGINIA CLASS                 74,129          74,129
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
015               LCS CLASS SUPPORT              36,206          36,206
                   EQUIPMENT.
016               SUBMARINE BATTERIES..          37,352          37,352
017               LPD CLASS SUPPORT              49,095          44,562
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      HM&E mechanical                           [-2,778]
                      modifications
                      ahead of need.
                      SWAN CANES                                [-1,755]
                      procurement ahead
                      of need.
018               ELECTRONIC DRY AIR...           2,996           2,996
019               STRATEGIC PLATFORM             11,558          11,558
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
020               DSSP EQUIPMENT.......           5,518           5,518
022               LCAC.................           7,158           7,158
023               UNDERWATER EOD                 58,783          53,783
                   PROGRAMS.
                      MK-18 UUV                                 [-5,000]
                      retrofit kits and
                      ancilliary
                      equipment
                      contract delay.
024               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             68,748          68,748
                   MILLION.
025               CHEMICAL WARFARE                2,937           2,937
                   DETECTORS.
026               SUBMARINE LIFE                  8,385           8,385
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM.
                  REACTOR PLANT
                   EQUIPMENT
027               REACTOR POWER UNITS..                         298,200
                      CVN 73 Refueling                         [298,200]
                      and Complex
                      Overhaul (RCOH).
028               REACTOR COMPONENTS...         288,822         288,822
                  OCEAN ENGINEERING
029               DIVING AND SALVAGE             10,572          10,572
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SMALL BOATS
030               STANDARD BOATS.......         129,784         126,445
                      7M RIB contract                             [-772]
                      delay.
                      Large force                                 [-791]
                      protection boat
                      contract delay.
                      Medium workboat                           [-1,776]
                      contract delay.
                  TRAINING EQUIPMENT
031               OTHER SHIPS TRAINING           17,152          17,152
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  PRODUCTION FACILITIES
                   EQUIPMENT
032               OPERATING FORCES IPE.          39,409          39,409
                  OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
033               NUCLEAR ALTERATIONS..         118,129         118,129
034               LCS COMMON MISSION             37,413          33,817
                   MODULES EQUIPMENT.
                      MPCE cost growth.                         [-1,026]
                      SUW support and                           [-2,570]
                      shipping
                      container cost
                      growth.
035               LCS MCM MISSION                15,270          15,270
                   MODULES.
036               LCS ASW MISSION                 2,729           2,729
                   MODULES.
037               LCS SUW MISSION                44,208          39,697
                   MODULES.
                      Gun module cost                           [-3,080]
                      growth.
                      Maritime security                         [-1,431]
                      module cost
                      growth.
038               REMOTE MINEHUNTING             42,276          42,276
                   SYSTEM (RMS).
                  SHIP SONARS
040               SPQ-9B RADAR.........          28,007          28,007
041               AN/SQQ-89 SURF ASW             79,802          79,802
                   COMBAT SYSTEM.
042               SSN ACOUSTICS........         165,655         165,655
043               UNDERSEA WARFARE                9,487           9,487
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
044               SONAR SWITCHES AND             11,621          11,621
                   TRANSDUCERS.
                  ASW ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
046               SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC             24,221          24,221
                   WARFARE SYSTEM.
047               SSTD.................          12,051          12,051
048               FIXED SURVEILLANCE            170,831         170,831
                   SYSTEM.
049               SURTASS..............           9,619           9,619
050               MARITIME PATROL AND            14,390          14,390
                   RECONNSAISANCE FORCE.
                  ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   EQUIPMENT
051               AN/SLQ-32............         214,582         214,582
                  RECONNAISSANCE
                   EQUIPMENT
052               SHIPBOARD IW EXPLOIT.         124,862         124,862
053               AUTOMATED                         164             164
                   IDENTIFICATION
                   SYSTEM (AIS).
                  SUBMARINE
                   SURVEILLANCE
                   EQUIPMENT
054               SUBMARINE SUPPORT              45,362          45,362
                   EQUIPMENT PROG.
                  OTHER SHIP ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
055               COOPERATIVE                    33,939          33,939
                   ENGAGEMENT
                   CAPABILITY.
056               TRUSTED INFORMATION               324             324
                   SYSTEM (TIS).
057               NAVAL TACTICAL                 18,192          18,192
                   COMMAND SUPPORT
                   SYSTEM (NTCSS).
058               ATDLS................          16,768          16,768
059               NAVY COMMAND AND                5,219           5,219
                   CONTROL SYSTEM
                   (NCCS).
060               MINESWEEPING SYSTEM            42,108          41,499
                   REPLACEMENT.
                      AN/SQQ-32                                   [-609]
                      integration cost
                      growth.
062               NAVSTAR GPS RECEIVERS          15,232          15,232
                   (SPACE).
063               AMERICAN FORCES RADIO           4,524           4,524
                   AND TV SERVICE.
064               STRATEGIC PLATFORM              6,382           6,382
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
                  TRAINING EQUIPMENT
065               OTHER TRAINING                 46,122          44,058
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      BFTT installation                         [-2,064]
                      kit cost growth.
                  AVIATION ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
066               MATCALS..............          16,999          16,999
067               SHIPBOARD AIR TRAFFIC           9,366           9,366
                   CONTROL.
068               AUTOMATIC CARRIER              21,357          21,357
                   LANDING SYSTEM.
069               NATIONAL AIR SPACE             26,639          26,639
                   SYSTEM.
070               FLEET AIR TRAFFIC               9,214           9,214
                   CONTROL SYSTEMS.
071               LANDING SYSTEMS......          13,902          13,902
072               ID SYSTEMS...........          34,901          34,901
073               NAVAL MISSION                  13,950          13,950
                   PLANNING SYSTEMS.
                  OTHER SHORE
                   ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
074               DEPLOYABLE JOINT                1,205           1,205
                   COMMAND & CONTROL.
075               MARITIME INTEGRATED             3,447           3,447
                   BROADCAST SYSTEM.
076               TACTICAL/MOBILE C4I            16,766          16,766
                   SYSTEMS.
077               DCGS-N...............          23,649          23,649
078               CANES................         357,589         357,589
079               RADIAC...............           8,343           8,343
080               CANES-INTELL.........          65,015          65,015
081               GPETE................           6,284           6,284
082               INTEG COMBAT SYSTEM             4,016           4,016
                   TEST FACILITY.
083               EMI CONTROL                     4,113           4,113
                   INSTRUMENTATION.
084               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             45,053          45,053
                   MILLION.
                  SHIPBOARD
                   COMMUNICATIONS
085               SHIPBOARD TACTICAL             14,410          14,410
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
086               SHIP COMMUNICATIONS            20,830          20,830
                   AUTOMATION.
088               COMMUNICATIONS ITEMS           14,145          14,145
                   UNDER $5M.
                  SUBMARINE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
089               SUBMARINE BROADCAST            11,057          11,057
                   SUPPORT.
090               SUBMARINE                      67,852          67,852
                   COMMUNICATION
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
091               SATELLITE                      13,218          13,218
                   COMMUNICATIONS
                   SYSTEMS.
092               NAVY MULTIBAND                272,076         272,076
                   TERMINAL (NMT).
                  SHORE COMMUNICATIONS
093               JCS COMMUNICATIONS              4,369           4,369
                   EQUIPMENT.
094               ELECTRICAL POWER                1,402           1,402
                   SYSTEMS.
                  CRYPTOGRAPHIC
                   EQUIPMENT
095               INFO SYSTEMS SECURITY         110,766         110,766
                   PROGRAM (ISSP).
096               MIO INTEL                         979             979
                   EXPLOITATION TEAM.
                  CRYPTOLOGIC EQUIPMENT
097               CRYPTOLOGIC                    11,502          11,502
                   COMMUNICATIONS EQUIP.
                  OTHER ELECTRONIC
                   SUPPORT
098               COAST GUARD EQUIPMENT           2,967           2,967
                  SONOBUOYS
100               SONOBUOYS_ALL TYPES..         182,946         182,946
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
101               WEAPONS RANGE SUPPORT          47,944          47,944
                   EQUIPMENT.
103               AIRCRAFT SUPPORT               76,683          76,683
                   EQUIPMENT.
106               METEOROLOGICAL                 12,575          12,875
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      CVN 73 Refueling                             [300]
                      and Complex
                      Overhaul (RCOH).
107               DCRS/DPL.............           1,415           1,415
109               AIRBORNE MINE                  23,152          23,152
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
114               AVIATION SUPPORT               52,555          52,555
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SHIP GUN SYSTEM
                   EQUIPMENT
115               SHIP GUN SYSTEMS                5,572           5,572
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SHIP MISSILE SYSTEMS
                   EQUIPMENT
118               SHIP MISSILE SUPPORT          165,769         165,769
                   EQUIPMENT.
123               TOMAHAWK SUPPORT               61,462          61,462
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  FBM SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
126               STRATEGIC MISSILE             229,832         229,832
                   SYSTEMS EQUIP.
                  ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
127               SSN COMBAT CONTROL             66,020          60,804
                   SYSTEMS.
                      688 TI04                                  [-5,216]
                      installation cost
                      growth.
128               ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT           7,559           7,559
                  OTHER ORDNANCE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
132               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE             20,619          20,619
                   DISPOSAL EQUIP.
133               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             11,251          11,251
                   MILLION.
                  OTHER EXPENDABLE
                   ORDNANCE
137               TRAINING DEVICE MODS.          84,080          84,080
                  CIVIL ENGINEERING
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
138               PASSENGER CARRYING              2,282           2,282
                   VEHICLES.
139               GENERAL PURPOSE                   547             547
                   TRUCKS.
140               CONSTRUCTION &                  8,949           8,949
                   MAINTENANCE EQUIP.
141               FIRE FIGHTING                  14,621          14,621
                   EQUIPMENT.
142               TACTICAL VEHICLES....             957             957
143               AMPHIBIOUS EQUIPMENT.           8,187           8,187
144               POLLUTION CONTROL               2,942           2,942
                   EQUIPMENT.
145               ITEMS UNDER $5                 17,592          16,143
                   MILLION.
                      Emergency                                 [-1,449]
                      response truck
                      cost growth.
146               PHYSICAL SECURITY               1,177           1,177
                   VEHICLES.
                  SUPPLY SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
147               MATERIALS HANDLING             10,937          10,937
                   EQUIPMENT.
148               OTHER SUPPLY SUPPORT           10,374          10,374
                   EQUIPMENT.
149               FIRST DESTINATION               5,668           5,668
                   TRANSPORTATION.
150               SPECIAL PURPOSE                90,921          90,921
                   SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
                  TRAINING DEVICES
151               TRAINING SUPPORT               22,046          22,046
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  COMMAND SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
152               COMMAND SUPPORT                24,208          24,208
                   EQUIPMENT.
153               EDUCATION SUPPORT                 874             874
                   EQUIPMENT.
154               MEDICAL SUPPORT                 2,634           2,634
                   EQUIPMENT.
156               NAVAL MIP SUPPORT               3,573           3,573
                   EQUIPMENT.
157               OPERATING FORCES                3,997           3,997
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
158               C4ISR EQUIPMENT......           9,638           9,638
159               ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT          21,001          21,001
                   EQUIPMENT.
160               PHYSICAL SECURITY              94,957          94,957
                   EQUIPMENT.
161               ENTERPRISE                     87,214          87,214
                   INFORMATION
                   TECHNOLOGY.
                  OTHER
164               NEXT GENERATION               116,165         116,165
                   ENTERPRISE SERVICE.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
164A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          10,847          10,847
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
165               SPARES AND REPAIR             325,084         325,084
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL OTHER            5,975,828       6,233,843
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, MARINE
                   CORPS
                  TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
001               AAV7A1 PIP...........          16,756          16,756
002               LAV PIP..............          77,736          77,736
                  ARTILLERY AND OTHER
                   WEAPONS
003               EXPEDITIONARY FIRE              5,742             642
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM.
                      Per Marine Corps                          [-5,100]
                      excess to need.
004               155MM LIGHTWEIGHT               4,532           4,532
                   TOWED HOWITZER.
005               HIGH MOBILITY                  19,474          19,474
                   ARTILLERY ROCKET
                   SYSTEM.
006               WEAPONS AND COMBAT              7,250           7,250
                   VEHICLES UNDER $5
                   MILLION.
                  OTHER SUPPORT
007               MODIFICATION KITS....          21,909          21,909
008               WEAPONS ENHANCEMENT             3,208           3,208
                   PROGRAM.
                  GUIDED MISSILES
009               GROUND BASED AIR               31,439          31,439
                   DEFENSE.
010               JAVELIN..............             343             343
011               FOLLOW ON TO SMAW....           4,995           4,995
012               ANTI-ARMOR WEAPONS              1,589           1,589
                   SYSTEM-HEAVY (AAWS-
                   H).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
013               MODIFICATION KITS....           5,134           5,134
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEMS
014               UNIT OPERATIONS                 9,178           9,178
                   CENTER.
015               COMMON AVIATION                12,272          12,272
                   COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (C.
                  REPAIR AND TEST
                   EQUIPMENT
016               REPAIR AND TEST                30,591          30,591
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
017               COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM           2,385           2,385
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (NON-TEL)
019               ITEMS UNDER $5                  4,205           4,205
                   MILLION (COMM &
                   ELEC).
020               AIR OPERATIONS C2               8,002           8,002
                   SYSTEMS.
                  RADAR + EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
021               RADAR SYSTEMS........          19,595          19,375
                      Sustainment_unjus                           [-220]
                      tified growth.
022               GROUND/AIR TASK                89,230          89,230
                   ORIENTED RADAR (G/
                   ATOR).
023               RQ-21 UAS............          70,565          70,565
                  INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
024               FIRE SUPPORT SYSTEM..          11,860          11,860
025               INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT           44,340          42,550
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Unjustified                               [-1,790]
                      program growth.
028               RQ-11 UAV............           2,737           2,737
030               DCGS-MC..............          20,620          20,620
                  OTHER COMM/ELEC
                   EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
031               NIGHT VISION                    9,798           9,798
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  OTHER SUPPORT (NON-
                   TEL)
032               NEXT GENERATION                 2,073           2,073
                   ENTERPRISE NETWORK
                   (NGEN).
033               COMMON COMPUTER                33,570          33,570
                   RESOURCES.
034               COMMAND POST SYSTEMS.          38,186          38,186
035               RADIO SYSTEMS........          64,494          64,494
036               COMM SWITCHING &               72,956          64,325
                   CONTROL SYSTEMS.
                      Unjustified                               [-8,631]
                      program growth.
037               COMM & ELEC                    43,317          43,317
                   INFRASTRUCTURE
                   SUPPORT.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
037A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           2,498           2,498
                  ADMINISTRATIVE
                   VEHICLES
038               COMMERCIAL PASSENGER              332             332
                   VEHICLES.
039               COMMERCIAL CARGO               11,035          11,035
                   VEHICLES.
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
040               5/4T TRUCK HMMWV               57,255          37,255
                   (MYP).
                      Early to need....                        [-20,000]
041               MOTOR TRANSPORT                   938             938
                   MODIFICATIONS.
044               JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL            7,500           7,500
                   VEHICLE.
045               FAMILY OF TACTICAL             10,179          10,179
                   TRAILERS.
                  OTHER SUPPORT
046               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             11,023          11,023
                   MILLION.
                  ENGINEER AND OTHER
                   EQUIPMENT
047               ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL             994             994
                   EQUIP ASSORT.
048               BULK LIQUID EQUIPMENT           1,256           1,256
049               TACTICAL FUEL SYSTEMS           3,750           3,750
050               POWER EQUIPMENT                 8,985           8,985
                   ASSORTED.
051               AMPHIBIOUS SUPPORT              4,418           4,418
                   EQUIPMENT.
052               EOD SYSTEMS..........           6,528           6,528
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
053               PHYSICAL SECURITY              26,510          26,510
                   EQUIPMENT.
054               GARRISON MOBILE                 1,910           1,910
                   ENGINEER EQUIPMENT
                   (GMEE).
055               MATERIAL HANDLING               8,807           8,807
                   EQUIP.
056               FIRST DESTINATION                 128             128
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                  GENERAL PROPERTY
058               TRAINING DEVICES.....           3,412           3,412
059               CONTAINER FAMILY.....           1,662           1,662
060               FAMILY OF                       3,669           3,669
                   CONSTRUCTION
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  OTHER SUPPORT
062               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              4,272           4,272
                   MILLION.
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
063               SPARES AND REPAIR              16,210          16,210
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL                    983,352         947,611
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       MARINE CORPS.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  TACTICAL FORCES
001               F-35.................       3,553,046       3,553,046
002                  ADVANCE                    291,880         291,880
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  TACTICAL AIRLIFT
003               KC-46A TANKER........       1,582,685       1,582,685
                  OTHER AIRLIFT
004               C-130J...............         482,396         482,396
005                  ADVANCE                    140,000         140,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
006               HC-130J..............         332,024         332,024
007                  ADVANCE                     50,000          50,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
008               MC-130J..............         190,971         190,971
009                  ADVANCE                     80,000          80,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  MISSION SUPPORT
                   AIRCRAFT
012               CIVIL AIR PATROL A/C.           2,562           2,562
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
013               TARGET DRONES........          98,576          98,576
016               RQ-4.................          54,475          44,475
                      MPRTIP Sensor                            [-10,000]
                      Trainer reduction.
017               AC-130J..............               1               1
018               MQ-9.................         240,218         338,218
                      Program increase.                        [120,000]
                      Use available                            [-22,000]
                      prior year funds
                      for FY 15
                      requirements.
                  STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
020               B-2A.................          23,865          23,865
021               B-1B.................         140,252         140,252
022               B-52.................         180,148         180,148
023               LARGE AIRCRAFT                 13,159          13,159
                   INFRARED
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
                  TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
025               F-15.................         387,314         387,314
026               F-16.................          12,336          12,336
027               F-22A................         180,207         180,207
028               F-35 MODIFICATIONS...         187,646         187,646
029                  ADVANCE                     28,500          28,500
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  AIRLIFT AIRCRAFT
030               C-5..................          14,731          14,731
031               C-5M.................         331,466         281,466
                      Program execution                        [-50,000]
                      delay.
033               C-17A................         127,494         127,494
034               C-21.................             264             264
035               C-32A................           8,767           8,767
036               C-37A................          18,457          18,457
                  TRAINER AIRCRAFT
038               GLIDER MODS..........             132             132
039               T-6..................          14,486          14,486
040               T-1..................           7,650           7,650
041               T-38.................          34,845          34,845
044               KC-10A (ATCA)........          34,313          34,313
045               C-12.................           1,960           1,960
048               VC-25A MOD...........           1,072           1,072
049               C-40.................           7,292           7,292
050               C-130................          35,869         124,269
                      C-130 8-Bladed                            [30,000]
                      Propeller upgrade.
                      C-130 AMP........                         [35,800]
                      T-56 3.5 Engine                           [22,600]
                      Mod.
051               C-130J MODS..........           7,919           7,919
052               C-135................          63,568          63,568
053               COMPASS CALL MODS....          57,828          57,828
054               RC-135...............         152,746         152,746
055               E-3..................          16,491          16,491
056               E-4..................          22,341          22,341
058               AIRBORNE WARNING AND          160,284         160,284
                   CONTROL SYSTEM.
059               FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-         32,026          32,026
                   OF-SIGHT TERMINALS.
060               H-1..................           8,237           8,237
061               H-60.................          60,110          60,110
062               RQ-4 MODS............          21,354          21,354
063               HC/MC-130                       1,902           1,902
                   MODIFICATIONS.
064               OTHER AIRCRAFT.......          32,106          32,106
065               MQ-1 MODS............           4,755           4,755
066               MQ-9 MODS............         155,445         155,445
069               CV-22 MODS...........          74,874          74,874
069A              EJECTION SEAT                                   2,500
                   RELIABILITY
                   IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM.
                      Initial aircraft                           [2,500]
                      installation.
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
070               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR         466,562         466,562
                   PARTS.
                  COMMON SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
071               AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT           22,470          22,470
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
                  POST PRODUCTION
                   SUPPORT
074               B-2A.................          44,793          44,793
075               B-52.................           5,249           5,249
077               C-17A................          20,110          20,110
078               CV-22 POST PRODUCTION          16,931          16,931
                   SUPPORT.
080               C-135................           4,414           4,414
081               F-15.................           1,122           1,122
082               F-16.................          10,994          10,994
083               F-22A................           5,929           5,929
084               OTHER AIRCRAFT.......              27              27
                  INDUSTRIAL
                   PREPAREDNESS
085               INDUSTRIAL                     21,363          21,363
                   RESPONSIVENESS.
                  WAR CONSUMABLES
086               WAR CONSUMABLES......          82,906          82,906
                  OTHER PRODUCTION
                   CHARGES
087               OTHER PRODUCTION            1,007,276       1,007,276
                   CHARGES.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
087A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          69,380          69,380
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT        11,542,571      11,671,471
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  MISSILE REPLACEMENT
                   EQUIPMENT_BALLISTIC
001               MISSILE REPLACEMENT            80,187          80,187
                   EQ-BALLISTIC.
                  TACTICAL
003               JOINT AIR-SURFACE             337,438         337,438
                   STANDOFF MISSILE.
004               SIDEWINDER (AIM-9X)..         132,995         132,995
005               AMRAAM...............         329,600         329,600
006               PREDATOR HELLFIRE              33,878          33,878
                   MISSILE.
007               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB..          70,578          50,578
                      Delay in                                 [-20,000]
                      Milestone C and
                      contract award.
                  INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
008               INDUSTR'L PREPAREDNS/             749             749
                   POL PREVENTION.
                  CLASS IV
009               MM III MODIFICATIONS.          28,477          28,477
010               AGM-65D MAVERICK.....             276             276
011               AGM-88A HARM.........             297             297
012               AIR LAUNCH CRUISE              16,083          16,083
                   MISSILE (ALCM).
013               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB..           6,924           6,924
                  MISSILE SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
014               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR          87,366          87,366
                   PARTS.
                  SPACE PROGRAMS
015               ADVANCED EHF.........         298,890         298,890
016               WIDEBAND GAPFILLER             38,971          36,071
                   SATELLITES(SPACE).
                      Unjustified                               [-2,900]
                      growth.
017               GPS III SPACE SEGMENT         235,397         235,397
018                  ADVANCE                     57,000          57,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
019               SPACEBORNE EQUIP               16,201          16,201
                   (COMSEC).
020               GLOBAL POSITIONING             52,090          52,090
                   (SPACE).
021               DEF METEOROLOGICAL             87,000          87,000
                   SAT PROG(SPACE).
022               EVOLVED EXPENDABLE            750,143         715,143
                   LAUNCH VEH
                   (INFRAST.).
                      Excess growth....                        [-35,000]
023               EVOLVED EXPENDABLE            630,903         630,903
                   LAUNCH VEH(SPACE).
024               SBIR HIGH (SPACE)....         450,884         450,884
                  SPECIAL PROGRAMS
028               SPECIAL UPDATE                 60,179          60,179
                   PROGRAMS.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                  UNDISTRIBUTED
028A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..         888,000         888,000
                       TOTAL MISSILE          4,690,506       4,632,606
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, AIR
                   FORCE
                  ROCKETS
001               ROCKETS..............           4,696           4,696
                  CARTRIDGES
002               CARTRIDGES...........         133,271         133,271
                  BOMBS
003               PRACTICE BOMBS.......          31,998          31,998
004               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS         148,614         148,614
005               JOINT DIRECT ATTACK           101,400         101,400
                   MUNITION.
                  OTHER ITEMS
006               CAD/PAD..............          29,989          29,989
007               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE              6,925           6,925
                   DISPOSAL (EOD).
008               SPARES AND REPAIR                 494             494
                   PARTS.
009               MODIFICATIONS........           1,610           1,610
010               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              4,237           4,237
                   MILLION.
                  FLARES
011               FLARES...............          86,101          86,101
                  FUZES
012               FUZES................         103,417         103,417
                  SMALL ARMS
013               SMALL ARMS...........          24,648          24,648
                       TOTAL                    677,400         677,400
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  PASSENGER CARRYING
                   VEHICLES
001               PASSENGER CARRYING              6,528           6,528
                   VEHICLES.
                  CARGO AND UTILITY
                   VEHICLES
002               MEDIUM TACTICAL                 7,639           7,639
                   VEHICLE.
003               CAP VEHICLES.........             961             961
004               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             11,027          11,027
                   MILLION.
                  SPECIAL PURPOSE
                   VEHICLES
005               SECURITY AND TACTICAL           4,447           4,447
                   VEHICLES.
006               ITEMS LESS THAN $5                693             693
                   MILLION.
                  FIRE FIGHTING
                   EQUIPMENT
007               FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH            10,152          10,152
                   RESCUE VEHICLES.
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
008               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             15,108          15,108
                   MILLION.
                  BASE MAINTENANCE
                   SUPPORT
009               RUNWAY SNOW REMOV &            10,212          10,212
                   CLEANING EQUIP.
010               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             57,049          57,049
                   MILLION.
                  COMM SECURITY
                   EQUIPMENT(COMSEC)
011               COMSEC EQUIPMENT.....         106,182         104,093
                      VACM                                      [-2,089]
                      modernization
                      devices unit cost
                      growth.
012               MODIFICATIONS                   1,363           1,363
                   (COMSEC).
                  INTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS
013               INTELLIGENCE TRAINING           2,832           2,832
                   EQUIPMENT.
014               INTELLIGENCE COMM              32,329          32,329
                   EQUIPMENT.
016               MISSION PLANNING               15,649          15,649
                   SYSTEMS.
                  ELECTRONICS PROGRAMS
017               AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL &          42,200          30,000
                   LANDING SYS.
                      D-ILS program                            [-12,200]
                      restructure funds
                      early to need.
018               NATIONAL AIRSPACE               6,333           6,333
                   SYSTEM.
019               BATTLE CONTROL                  2,708           2,708
                   SYSTEM_FIXED.
020               THEATER AIR CONTROL            50,033          50,033
                   SYS IMPROVEMENTS.
021               WEATHER OBSERVATION            16,348          16,348
                   FORECAST.
022               STRATEGIC COMMAND AND         139,984         139,984
                   CONTROL.
023               CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN              20,101          20,101
                   COMPLEX.
026               INTEGRATED STRAT PLAN           9,060           9,060
                   & ANALY NETWORK
                   (ISPAN).
                  SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS
                   PROJECTS
027               GENERAL INFORMATION            39,100          39,100
                   TECHNOLOGY.
028               AF GLOBAL COMMAND &            19,010          19,010
                   CONTROL SYS.
029               MOBILITY COMMAND AND           11,462          11,462
                   CONTROL.
030               AIR FORCE PHYSICAL             37,426          37,426
                   SECURITY SYSTEM.
031               COMBAT TRAINING                26,634          26,634
                   RANGES.
032               MINIMUM ESSENTIAL               1,289           1,289
                   EMERGENCY COMM N.
033               C3 COUNTERMEASURES...          11,508          11,508
034               GCSS-AF FOS..........           3,670           3,670
035               DEFENSE ENTERPRISE             15,298          15,298
                   ACCOUNTING AND MGMT
                   SYSTEM.
036               THEATER BATTLE MGT C2           9,565           9,565
                   SYSTEM.
037               AIR & SPACE                    25,772          25,772
                   OPERATIONS CTR-WPN
                   SYS.
                  AIR FORCE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
038               INFORMATION TRANSPORT          81,286         112,586
                   SYSTEMS.
                      Air Force                                 [31,300]
                      requested program
                      transfer from
                      AFNET.
039               AFNET................         122,228          90,928
                      Air Force                                [-31,300]
                      requested program
                      transfer to BITI.
041               USCENTCOM............          16,342          16,342
                  SPACE PROGRAMS
042               FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-         60,230          60,230
                   OF-SIGHT TERMINALS.
043               SPACE BASED IR SENSOR          26,100          26,100
                   PGM SPACE.
044               NAVSTAR GPS SPACE....           2,075           2,075
045               NUDET DETECTION SYS             4,656           4,656
                   SPACE.
046               AF SATELLITE CONTROL           54,630          54,630
                   NETWORK SPACE.
047               SPACELIFT RANGE                69,713          69,713
                   SYSTEM SPACE.
048               MILSATCOM SPACE......          41,355          41,355
049               SPACE MODS SPACE.....          31,722          31,722
050               COUNTERSPACE SYSTEM..          61,603          61,603
                  ORGANIZATION AND BASE
051               TACTICAL C-E                   50,335          50,335
                   EQUIPMENT.
053               RADIO EQUIPMENT......          14,846          14,846
054               CCTV/AUDIOVISUAL                3,635           3,635
                   EQUIPMENT.
055               BASE COMM                      79,607          79,607
                   INFRASTRUCTURE.
                  MODIFICATIONS
056               COMM ELECT MODS......         105,398         105,398
                  PERSONAL SAFETY &
                   RESCUE EQUIP
057               NIGHT VISION GOGGLES.          12,577          12,577
058               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             31,209          31,209
                   MILLION.
                  DEPOT PLANT+MTRLS
                   HANDLING EQ
059               MECHANIZED MATERIAL             7,670           7,670
                   HANDLING EQUIP.
                  BASE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
060               BASE PROCURED                  14,125          14,125
                   EQUIPMENT.
061               CONTINGENCY                    16,744          16,744
                   OPERATIONS.
062               PRODUCTIVITY CAPITAL            2,495           2,495
                   INVESTMENT.
063               MOBILITY EQUIPMENT...          10,573          10,573
064               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              5,462           5,462
                   MILLION.
                  SPECIAL SUPPORT
                   PROJECTS
066               DARP RC135...........          24,710          24,710
067               DCGS-AF..............         206,743         206,743
069               SPECIAL UPDATE                537,370         537,370
                   PROGRAM.
070               DEFENSE SPACE                  77,898          77,898
                   RECONNAISSANCE PROG..
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                  UNDISTRIBUTED
070A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..      13,990,196      13,990,196
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
072               SPARES AND REPAIR              32,813          32,813
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL OTHER           16,566,018      16,551,729
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-
                   WIDE
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCAA
001               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              1,594           1,594
                   MILLION.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCMA
002               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           4,325           4,325
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DHRA
003               PERSONNEL                      17,268          17,268
                   ADMINISTRATION.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
008               INFORMATION SYSTEMS            10,491          10,491
                   SECURITY.
010               TELEPORT PROGRAM.....          80,622          80,622
011               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             14,147          14,147
                   MILLION.
012               NET CENTRIC                     1,921           1,921
                   ENTERPRISE SERVICES
                   (NCES).
013               DEFENSE INFORMATION            80,144          80,144
                   SYSTEM NETWORK.
015               CYBER SECURITY                  8,755           8,755
                   INITIATIVE.
016               WHITE HOUSE                    33,737          33,737
                   COMMUNICATION AGENCY.
017               SENIOR LEADERSHIP              32,544          32,544
                   ENTERPRISE.
018               JOINT INFORMATION              13,300          13,300
                   ENVIRONMENT.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DLA
020               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           7,436           7,436
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DMACT
021               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......          11,640          11,640
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DODEA
022               AUTOMATION/                     1,269           1,269
                   EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT
                   & LOGISTICS.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DSS
024               VEHICLES.............           1,500           1,500
025               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           1,039           1,039
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DEFENSE THREAT
                   REDUCTION AGENCY
026               VEHICLES.............              50              50
027               OTHER MAJOR EQUIPMENT           7,639           7,639
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   AGENCY
028                  ADVANCE                     68,880               0
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                      Transfer to line                         [-68,880]
                      30 for All Up
                      Round procurement.
029               THAAD................         464,424         464,424
030               AEGIS BMD............         435,430         534,430
                      Program increase.                         [99,000]
031               BMDS AN/TPY-2 RADARS.          48,140          48,140
032               AEGIS ASHORE PHASE            225,774         225,774
                   III.
034               IRON DOME............         175,972               0
                      Program increase                         [175,000]
                      for Iron Dome.
                      Realignment of                          [-350,972]
                      Iron Dome to
                      Overseas
                      Contingency
                      Operations.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, NSA
041               INFORMATION SYSTEMS             3,448           3,448
                   SECURITY PROGRAM
                   (ISSP).
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD
042               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD.          43,708          43,708
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS
044               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS.          10,783          10,783
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS
046               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS.          29,599          29,599
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
046A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..         540,894         540,894
                  AVIATION PROGRAMS
047               MC-12................          40,500               0
                      Unjustified                              [-40,500]
                      Request.
048               ROTARY WING UPGRADES          112,226         112,226
                   AND SUSTAINMENT.
049               MH-60 MODERNIZATION             3,021           3,021
                   PROGRAM.
050               NON-STANDARD AVIATION          48,200          48,200
052               MH-47 CHINOOK........          22,230          22,230
053               RQ-11 UNMANNED AERIAL           6,397           6,397
                   VEHICLE.
054               CV-22 MODIFICATION...          25,578          25,578
056               MQ-9 UNMANNED AERIAL           15,651          15,651
                   VEHICLE.
057               STUASL0..............           1,500           1,500
058               PRECISION STRIKE              145,929         145,929
                   PACKAGE.
059               AC/MC-130J...........          65,130          65,130
061               C-130 MODIFICATIONS..          39,563          39,563
                  SHIPBUILDING
063               UNDERWATER SYSTEMS...          25,459          25,459
                  AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
065               ORDNANCE ITEMS <$5M..         144,336         144,336
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT
                   PROGRAMS
068               INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS.          81,001          81,001
070               DISTRIBUTED COMMON             17,323          17,323
                   GROUND/SURFACE
                   SYSTEMS.
071               OTHER ITEMS <$5M.....          84,852          84,852
072               COMBATANT CRAFT                51,937          51,937
                   SYSTEMS.
074               SPECIAL PROGRAMS.....          31,017          31,017
075               TACTICAL VEHICLES....          63,134          63,134
076               WARRIOR SYSTEMS <$5M.         192,448         192,448
078               COMBAT MISSION                 19,984          19,984
                   REQUIREMENTS.
081               GLOBAL VIDEO                    5,044           5,044
                   SURVEILLANCE
                   ACTIVITIES.
082               OPERATIONAL                    38,126          38,126
                   ENHANCEMENTS
                   INTELLIGENCE.
088               OPERATIONAL                   243,849         243,849
                   ENHANCEMENTS.
                  CBDP
095               CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL           170,137         170,137
                   SITUATIONAL
                   AWARENESS.
096               CB PROTECTION &               150,392         150,392
                   HAZARD MITIGATION.
                       TOTAL                  4,221,437       4,035,085
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       DEFENSE-WIDE.
 
                  JOINT URGENT
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND
                  JOINT URGENT
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND
001               JOINT URGENT                   20,000               0
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND.
                      Unjustified                              [-20,000]
                      request.
                       TOTAL JOINT               20,000               0
                       URGENT
                       OPERATIONAL
                       NEEDS FUND.
 
                  PRIOR YEAR
                   RESCISSIONS
                  PRIOR YEAR
                   RESCISSIONS
010               PRIOR YEAR                   -265,685               0
                   RESCISSIONS.
                      Denied Prior Year                        [265,685]
                      Rescission
                      request.
                       TOTAL PRIOR YEAR        -265,685               0
                       RESCISSIONS.
 
                       TOTAL                 89,508,034      91,399,361
                       PROCUREMENT.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands
                               of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2015        Agreement
      Line                 Item              Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  FIXED WING
003               AERIAL COMMON SENSOR           36,000          36,000
                   (ACS) (MIP).
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT            36,000          36,000
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  AIR-TO-SURFACE
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
004               HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY.          32,136          32,136
                       TOTAL MISSILE             32,136          32,136
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, ARMY
                  SMALL/MEDIUM CAL
                   AMMUNITION
007               CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES.          35,000          35,000
                  MORTAR AMMUNITION
009               60MM MORTAR, ALL                5,000           5,000
                   TYPES.
                  ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
013               ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES,          10,000          10,000
                   75MM & 105MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
014               ARTILLERY PROJECTILE,          15,000          15,000
                   155MM, ALL TYPES.
                  ROCKETS
020               ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL          66,905          66,905
                   TYPES.
                  OTHER AMMUNITION
021               DEMOLITION MUNITIONS,           3,000           3,000
                   ALL TYPES.
022               GRENADES, ALL TYPES..           1,000           1,000
023               SIGNALS, ALL TYPES...           5,000           5,000
                       TOTAL                    140,905         140,905
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, ARMY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
005               FAMILY OF MEDIUM               95,624          95,624
                   TACTICAL VEH (FMTV).
008               PLS ESP..............          60,300          60,300
010               HVY EXPANDED MOBILE           192,620         192,620
                   TACTICAL TRUCK EXT
                   SERV.
015               MINE-RESISTANT AMBUSH-        197,000         197,000
                   PROTECTED (MRAP)
                   MODS.
                  ELECT EQUIP_TACT INT
                   REL ACT (TIARA)
063               DCGS-A (MIP).........          63,831          63,831
065A              TROJAN                          2,600           2,600
                   SPIRIT_TERMINALS
                   (TIARA).
067               CI HUMINT AUTO                  6,910           6,910
                   REPRTING AND
                   COLL(CHARCS).
                  ELECT
                   EQUIP_ELECTRONIC
                   WARFARE (EW)
071               FAMILY OF PERSISTENT           32,083          32,083
                   SURVEILLANCE
                   CAPABILITIE.
072               COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/           47,535          47,535
                   SECURITY
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
114A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           1,000           1,000
                  COMBAT SERVICE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
133               FORCE PROVIDER.......          51,500          51,500
135               CARGO AERIAL DEL &              2,580           2,580
                   PERSONNEL PARACHUTE
                   SYSTEM.
                  OTHER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
170               RAPID EQUIPPING                25,000          25,000
                   SOLDIER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT.
                       TOTAL OTHER              778,583         778,583
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  JOINT IMPR EXPLOSIVE
                   DEV DEFEAT FUND
                  NETWORK ATTACK
001               ATTACK THE NETWORK...         189,700         189,700
                  JIEDDO DEVICE DEFEAT
002               DEFEAT THE DEVICE....          94,600          94,600
                  FORCE TRAINING
003               TRAIN THE FORCE......          15,700          15,700
                  STAFF AND
                   INFRASTRUCTURE
004               OPERATIONS...........          79,000         144,463
                      Transfer from                             [65,463]
                      Base.
                       TOTAL JOINT IMPR         379,000         444,463
                       EXPLOSIVE DEV
                       DEFEAT FUND.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  COMBAT AIRCRAFT
011               H-1 UPGRADES (UH-1Y/           30,000          30,000
                   AH-1Z).
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
027               MQ-8 UAV.............          40,888          40,888
028A              STUASL0 UAV..........          55,000          55,000
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
039               EP-3 SERIES..........          34,955          34,955
049               SPECIAL PROJECT                 2,548           2,548
                   AIRCRAFT.
054               COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT.          31,920          31,920
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIP & FACILITIES
067               AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL               936             936
                   FACILITIES.
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT           196,247         196,247
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  WEAPONS PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  STRATEGIC MISSILES
003               TOMAHAWK.............          45,500          45,500
                  TACTICAL MISSILES
010               LASER MAVERICK.......          16,485          16,485
011               STAND OFF PRECISION             4,800           4,800
                   GUIDED MUNITIONS
                   (SOPGM).
                       TOTAL WEAPONS             66,785          66,785
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF AMMO,
                   NAVY & MC
                  NAVY AMMUNITION
001               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS           7,596           7,596
002               AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL           8,862           8,862
                   TYPES.
003               MACHINE GUN                     3,473           3,473
                   AMMUNITION.
006               AIR EXPENDABLE                 29,376          29,376
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
011               OTHER SHIP GUN                  3,919           3,919
                   AMMUNITION.
012               SMALL ARMS & LANDING            3,561           3,561
                   PARTY AMMO.
013               PYROTECHNIC AND                 2,913           2,913
                   DEMOLITION.
014               AMMUNITION LESS THAN            2,764           2,764
                   $5 MILLION.
                  MARINE CORPS
                   AMMUNITION
015               SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION           9,475           9,475
016               LINEAR CHARGES, ALL             8,843           8,843
                   TYPES.
017               40 MM, ALL TYPES.....           7,098           7,098
018               60MM, ALL TYPES......           5,935           5,935
019               81MM, ALL TYPES......           9,318           9,318
020               120MM, ALL TYPES.....           6,921           6,921
022               GRENADES, ALL TYPES..           3,218           3,218
023               ROCKETS, ALL TYPES...           7,642           7,642
024               ARTILLERY, ALL TYPES.          30,289          30,289
025               DEMOLITION MUNITIONS,           1,255           1,255
                   ALL TYPES.
026               FUZE, ALL TYPES......           2,061           2,061
                       TOTAL                    154,519         154,519
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMO, NAVY & MC.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  OTHER SHIPBOARD
                   EQUIPMENT
023               UNDERWATER EOD                  8,210           8,210
                   PROGRAMS.
                  OTHER SHORE
                   ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
078               CANES................                             400
                      ERI: Information                             [400]
                      Sharing with
                      Coalition
                      Partners.
084               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              5,870           5,870
                   MILLION.
                  SHIPBOARD
                   COMMUNICATIONS
088               COMMUNICATIONS ITEMS            1,100           1,100
                   UNDER $5M.
                  OTHER ORDNANCE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
132               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE            207,860         207,860
                   DISPOSAL EQUIP.
                  CIVIL ENGINEERING
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
138               PASSENGER CARRYING              1,063           1,063
                   VEHICLES.
139               GENERAL PURPOSE                   152             152
                   TRUCKS.
142               TACTICAL VEHICLES....          26,300          26,300
145               ITEMS UNDER $5                  3,300           3,300
                   MILLION.
                  COMMAND SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
152               COMMAND SUPPORT                10,745          10,745
                   EQUIPMENT.
157               OPERATING FORCES                3,331           3,331
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
158               C4ISR EQUIPMENT......          35,923          36,073
                      ERI: Black Sea                               [150]
                      Information
                      Sharing
                      Initiatives.
159               ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT             514             514
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
164A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           2,400           2,400
                       TOTAL OTHER              306,768         307,318
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, MARINE
                   CORPS
                  OTHER SUPPORT
007               MODIFICATION KITS....           3,190           3,190
                  GUIDED MISSILES
010               JAVELIN..............          17,100          17,100
                  OTHER SUPPORT
013               MODIFICATION KITS....          13,500          13,500
                  REPAIR AND TEST
                   EQUIPMENT
016               REPAIR AND TEST                   980             980
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (NON-TEL)
019               ITEMS UNDER $5                    996             996
                   MILLION (COMM &
                   ELEC).
                  INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
025               INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT            1,450           1,450
                   EQUIPMENT.
028               RQ-11 UAV............           1,740           1,740
                  OTHER COMM/ELEC
                   EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
031               NIGHT VISION                      134             134
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  OTHER SUPPORT (NON-
                   TEL)
036               COMM SWITCHING &                3,119           3,119
                   CONTROL SYSTEMS.
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
042               MEDIUM TACTICAL                   584             584
                   VEHICLE REPLACEMENT.
                  ENGINEER AND OTHER
                   EQUIPMENT
052               EOD SYSTEMS..........           5,566           5,566
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
055               MATERIAL HANDLING               3,230           3,230
                   EQUIP.
                  GENERAL PROPERTY
058               TRAINING DEVICES.....           2,000           2,000
                       TOTAL                     53,589          53,589
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       MARINE CORPS.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  OTHER AIRLIFT
004               C-130J...............          70,000          70,000
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
018               MQ-9.................         192,000         192,000
                  STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
021               B-1B.................          91,879          91,879
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
050               C-130................          47,840          47,840
051               C-130J MODS..........          18,000          18,000
053               COMPASS CALL MODS....          24,800          24,800
063               HC/MC-130                      44,300          44,300
                   MODIFICATIONS.
064               OTHER AIRCRAFT.......         111,990         111,990
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
070               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR          45,410          45,410
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT           646,219         646,219
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  TACTICAL
006               PREDATOR HELLFIRE             125,469         125,469
                   MISSILE.
007               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB..          10,720          10,720
                       TOTAL MISSILE            136,189         136,189
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, AIR
                   FORCE
                  CARTRIDGES
002               CARTRIDGES...........           2,469           2,469
                  BOMBS
004               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS          56,293          56,293
005               JOINT DIRECT ATTACK           117,039         117,039
                   MUNITION.
                  FLARES
011               FLARES...............          19,136          19,136
                  FUZES
012               FUZES................          24,848          24,848
                       TOTAL                    219,785         219,785
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  CARGO AND UTILITY
                   VEHICLES
004               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              3,000           3,000
                   MILLION.
                  SPECIAL PURPOSE
                   VEHICLES
006               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              1,878           1,878
                   MILLION.
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
008               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              5,131           5,131
                   MILLION.
                  BASE MAINTENANCE
                   SUPPORT
009               RUNWAY SNOW REMOV &             1,734           1,734
                   CLEANING EQUIP.
010               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             22,000          22,000
                   MILLION.
                  SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS
                   PROJECTS
027               GENERAL INFORMATION             3,857           3,857
                   TECHNOLOGY.
033               C3 COUNTERMEASURES...             900             900
                  SPACE PROGRAMS
048               MILSATCOM SPACE......          19,547          19,547
                  ORGANIZATION AND BASE
055               BASE COMM                       1,970           1,970
                   INFRASTRUCTURE.
                  PERSONAL SAFETY &
                   RESCUE EQUIP
057               NIGHT VISION GOGGLES.             765             765
                  BASE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
060               BASE PROCURED                   2,030           2,030
                   EQUIPMENT.
061               CONTINGENCY                    99,590          99,590
                   OPERATIONS.
063               MOBILITY EQUIPMENT...         107,361         107,361
064               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             10,975          10,975
                   MILLION.
                  SPECIAL SUPPORT
                   PROJECTS
070               DEFENSE SPACE                   6,100           6,100
                   RECONNAISSANCE PROG..
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
                  UNDISTRIBUTED
070A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..       3,143,936       3,143,936
                       TOTAL OTHER            3,430,774       3,430,774
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-
                   WIDE
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
010               TELEPORT PROGRAM.....           4,330           4,330
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   AGENCY
034               IRON DOME............                         350,972
                      Realignment of                           [350,972]
                      Iron Dome to
                      Overseas
                      Contingency
                      Operations.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
046A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          65,829          65,829
                  AVIATION PROGRAMS
056               MQ-9 UNMANNED AERIAL                            5,700
                   VEHICLE.
                      MQ-9 Capability                            [5,700]
                      Enhancements.
                  AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
065               ORDNANCE ITEMS <$5M..          28,873          28,873
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT
                   PROGRAMS
068               INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS.          13,549          13,549
071               OTHER ITEMS <$5M.....          32,773          32,773
076               WARRIOR SYSTEMS <$5M.          78,357          78,357
088               OPERATIONAL                     4,175           4,175
                   ENHANCEMENTS.
                       TOTAL                    227,886         584,558
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       DEFENSE-WIDE.
 
                  JOINT URGENT
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND
                  JOINT URGENT
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND
001               JOINT URGENT                   50,000               0
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND.
                      Program decrease.                        [-50,000]
                       TOTAL JOINT               50,000               0
                       URGENT
                       OPERATIONAL
                       NEEDS FUND.
 
                  NATIONAL GUARD &
                   RESERVE EQUIPMENT
                  UNDISTRIBUTED
007               MISCELLANEOUS                               1,250,000
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Program increase.                      [1,250,000]
                       TOTAL NATIONAL                         1,250,000
                       GUARD & RESERVE
                       EQUIPMENT.
 
                  PRIOR YEAR
                   RESCISSIONS
                  PRIOR YEAR
                   RESCISSIONS
010               PRIOR YEAR                   -117,000               0
                   RESCISSIONS.
                      Denied Prior Year                        [117,000]
                      Rescission
                      request.
                       TOTAL PRIOR YEAR        -117,000               0
                       RESCISSIONS.
 
                       TOTAL                  6,738,385       8,478,070
                       PROCUREMENT.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION (In Thousands of
                                Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               FY 2015       Agreement
  Line   Program Element        Item           Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ...............  RESEARCH,
                           DEVELOPMENT,
                           TEST & EVAL,
                           ARMY
         ...............  BASIC RESEARCH
   001   0601101A         IN-HOUSE                13,464         13,464
                           LABORATORY
                           INDEPENDENT
                           RESEARCH.
   002   0601102A         DEFENSE RESEARCH       238,167        238,167
                           SCIENCES.
   003   0601103A         UNIVERSITY              69,808         89,808
                           RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVES.
         ...............      Basic                             [20,000]
                              research
                              program
                              increase.
   004   0601104A         UNIVERSITY AND         102,737        102,737
                           INDUSTRY
                           RESEARCH
                           CENTERS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            424,176        444,176
                             BASIC
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  APPLIED RESEARCH
   005   0602105A         MATERIALS               28,006         28,006
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   006   0602120A         SENSORS AND             33,515         33,515
                           ELECTRONIC
                           SURVIVABILITY.
   007   0602122A         TRACTOR HIP.....        16,358         16,358
   008   0602211A         AVIATION                63,433         63,433
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   009   0602270A         ELECTRONIC              18,502         18,502
                           WARFARE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   010   0602303A         MISSILE                 46,194         46,194
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   011   0602307A         ADVANCED WEAPONS        28,528         28,528
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   012   0602308A         ADVANCED                27,435         27,435
                           CONCEPTS AND
                           SIMULATION.
   013   0602601A         COMBAT VEHICLE          72,883         72,883
                           AND AUTOMOTIVE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   014   0602618A         BALLISTICS              85,597         85,597
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   015   0602622A         CHEMICAL, SMOKE          3,971          3,971
                           AND EQUIPMENT
                           DEFEATING
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   016   0602623A         JOINT SERVICE            6,853          6,853
                           SMALL ARMS
                           PROGRAM.
   017   0602624A         WEAPONS AND             38,069         38,069
                           MUNITIONS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   018   0602705A         ELECTRONICS AND         56,435         56,435
                           ELECTRONIC
                           DEVICES.
   019   0602709A         NIGHT VISION            38,445         38,445
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   020   0602712A         COUNTERMINE             25,939         25,939
                           SYSTEMS.
   021   0602716A         HUMAN FACTORS           23,783         23,783
                           ENGINEERING
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   022   0602720A         ENVIRONMENTAL           15,659         15,659
                           QUALITY
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   023   0602782A         COMMAND,                33,817         33,817
                           CONTROL,
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   024   0602783A         COMPUTER AND            10,764         10,764
                           SOFTWARE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   025   0602784A         MILITARY                63,311         63,311
                           ENGINEERING
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   026   0602785A         MANPOWER/               23,295         23,295
                           PERSONNEL/
                           TRAINING
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   027   0602786A         WARFIGHTER              25,751         28,330
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Joint                              [2,579]
                              Service
                              Combat
                              Feeding
                              Technology.
   028   0602787A         MEDICAL                 76,068         76,068
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            862,611        865,190
                             APPLIED
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT
   029   0603001A         WARFIGHTER              65,139         65,813
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Joint                                [674]
                              Service
                              Combat
                              Feeding Tech
                              Demo.
   030   0603002A         MEDICAL ADVANCED        67,291         67,291
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   031   0603003A         AVIATION                88,990         88,990
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   032   0603004A         WEAPONS AND             57,931         57,931
                           MUNITIONS
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   033   0603005A         COMBAT VEHICLE         110,031        110,031
                           AND AUTOMOTIVE
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   034   0603006A         SPACE                    6,883          6,883
                           APPLICATION
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   035   0603007A         MANPOWER,               13,580         13,580
                           PERSONNEL AND
                           TRAINING
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   036   0603008A         ELECTRONIC              44,871         44,871
                           WARFARE
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   037   0603009A         TRACTOR HIKE....         7,492          7,492
   038   0603015A         NEXT GENERATION         16,749         16,749
                           TRAINING &
                           SIMULATION
                           SYSTEMS.
   039   0603020A         TRACTOR ROSE....        14,483         14,483
   041   0603125A         COMBATING               24,270         24,270
                           TERRORISM_TECHN
                           OLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   042   0603130A         TRACTOR NAIL....         3,440          3,440
   043   0603131A         TRACTOR EGGS....         2,406          2,406
   044   0603270A         ELECTRONIC              26,057         26,057
                           WARFARE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   045   0603313A         MISSILE AND             44,957         44,957
                           ROCKET ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   046   0603322A         TRACTOR CAGE....        11,105         11,105
   047   0603461A         HIGH PERFORMANCE       181,609        181,609
                           COMPUTING
                           MODERNIZATION
                           PROGRAM.
   048   0603606A         LANDMINE WARFARE        13,074         13,074
                           AND BARRIER
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   049   0603607A         JOINT SERVICE            7,321          7,321
                           SMALL ARMS
                           PROGRAM.
   050   0603710A         NIGHT VISION            44,138         44,138
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   051   0603728A         ENVIRONMENTAL            9,197          9,197
                           QUALITY
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEMONSTRATIONS.
   052   0603734A         MILITARY                17,613         17,613
                           ENGINEERING
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   053   0603772A         ADVANCED                39,164         39,164
                           TACTICAL
                           COMPUTER
                           SCIENCE AND
                           SENSOR
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            917,791        918,465
                             ADVANCED
                             TECHNOLOGY
                             DEVELOPMENT
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           COMPONENT
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           PROTOTYPES
   054   0603305A         ARMY MISSLE             12,797         12,797
                           DEFENSE SYSTEMS
                           INTEGRATION.
   055   0603308A         ARMY SPACE              13,999         13,999
                           SYSTEMS
                           INTEGRATION.
   058   0603639A         TANK AND MEDIUM         29,334         29,334
                           CALIBER
                           AMMUNITION.
   060   0603747A         SOLDIER SUPPORT          9,602         11,002
                           AND
                           SURVIVABILITY.
         ...............      Food                               [1,400]
                              Advanced
                              Development.
   061   0603766A         TACTICAL                 8,953          8,953
                           ELECTRONIC
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           SYSTEM_ADV DEV.
   062   0603774A         NIGHT VISION             3,052          3,052
                           SYSTEMS
                           ADVANCED
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   063   0603779A         ENVIRONMENTAL            7,830          7,830
                           QUALITY
                           TECHNOLOGY_DEM/
                           VAL.
   065   0603790A         NATO RESEARCH            2,954          2,954
                           AND DEVELOPMENT.
   067   0603804A         LOGISTICS AND           13,386         13,386
                           ENGINEER
                           EQUIPMENT_ADV
                           DEV.
   069   0603807A         MEDICAL                 23,659         23,659
                           SYSTEMS_ADV DEV.
   070   0603827A         SOLDIER                  6,830          9,830
                           SYSTEMS_ADVANCE
                           D DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............      Army                               [3,000]
                              requested
                              realignment_
                              Caliber
                              Config Study.
   072   0604100A         ANALYSIS OF              9,913          9,913
                           ALTERNATIVES.
   073   0604115A         TECHNOLOGY              74,740         74,740
                           MATURATION
                           INITIATIVES.
   074   0604120A         ASSURED                  9,930          9,930
                           POSITIONING,
                           NAVIGATION AND
                           TIMING (PNT).
   076   0604319A         INDIRECT FIRE           96,177         71,177
                           PROTECTION
                           CAPABILITY
                           INCREMENT 2-
                           INTERCEPT
                           (IFPC2).
         ...............      Program                          [-25,000]
                              delay and
                              funds
                              requested
                              early to
                              need.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            323,156        302,556
                             ADVANCED
                             COMPONENT
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             PROTOTYPES
         ...............
         ...............  SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           DEMONSTRATION
   079   0604201A         AIRCRAFT                37,246         37,246
                           AVIONICS.
   081   0604270A         ELECTRONIC               6,002          6,002
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   082   0604280A         JOINT TACTICAL           9,832          9,832
                           RADIO.
   083   0604290A         MID-TIER                 9,730          9,730
                           NETWORKING
                           VEHICULAR RADIO
                           (MNVR).
   084   0604321A         ALL SOURCE               5,532          5,532
                           ANALYSIS SYSTEM.
   085   0604328A         TRACTOR CAGE....        19,929         19,929
   086   0604601A         INFANTRY SUPPORT        27,884         34,586
                           WEAPONS.
         ...............      Army                               [6,702]
                              requested
                              realignment.
   087   0604604A         MEDIUM TACTICAL            210            210
                           VEHICLES.
   088   0604611A         JAVELIN.........         4,166          4,166
   089   0604622A         FAMILY OF HEAVY         12,913         12,913
                           TACTICAL
                           VEHICLES.
   090   0604633A         AIR TRAFFIC             16,764         16,764
                           CONTROL.
   091   0604641A         TACTICAL                 6,770          6,770
                           UNMANNED GROUND
                           VEHICLE (TUGV).
   092   0604710A         NIGHT VISION            65,333         65,333
                           SYSTEMS_ENG DEV.
   093   0604713A         COMBAT FEEDING,          1,335          1,897
                           CLOTHING, AND
                           EQUIPMENT.
         ...............      Military                             [562]
                              Subsistence
                              Systems.
   094   0604715A         NON-SYSTEM               8,945          8,945
                           TRAINING
                           DEVICES_ENG DEV.
   096   0604741A         AIR DEFENSE             15,906         15,906
                           COMMAND,
                           CONTROL AND
                           INTELLIGENCE_EN
                           G DEV.
   097   0604742A         CONSTRUCTIVE             4,394          4,394
                           SIMULATION
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   098   0604746A         AUTOMATIC TEST          11,084         11,084
                           EQUIPMENT
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   099   0604760A         DISTRIBUTIVE            10,027         10,027
                           INTERACTIVE
                           SIMULATIONS
                           (DIS)_ENG DEV.
   100   0604780A         COMBINED ARMS           42,430         42,430
                           TACTICAL
                           TRAINER (CATT)
                           CORE.
   101   0604798A         BRIGADE                105,279        105,279
                           ANALYSIS,
                           INTEGRATION AND
                           EVALUATION.
   102   0604802A         WEAPONS AND             15,006         15,006
                           MUNITIONS_ENG
                           DEV.
   103   0604804A         LOGISTICS AND           24,581         24,581
                           ENGINEER
                           EQUIPMENT_ENG
                           DEV.
   104   0604805A         COMMAND,                 4,433          4,433
                           CONTROL,
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           SYSTEMS_ENG DEV.
   105   0604807A         MEDICAL MATERIEL/       30,397         30,397
                           MEDICAL
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           EQUIPMENT_ENG
                           DEV.
   106   0604808A         LANDMINE WARFARE/       57,705         57,705
                           BARRIER_ENG DEV.
   108   0604818A         ARMY TACTICAL           29,683         29,683
                           COMMAND &
                           CONTROL
                           HARDWARE &
                           SOFTWARE.
   109   0604820A         RADAR                    5,224          5,224
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   111   0604823A         FIREFINDER......        37,492         37,492
   112   0604827A         SOLDIER                  6,157          6,157
                           SYSTEMS_WARRIOR
                           DEM/VAL.
   113   0604854A         ARTILLERY                1,912          1,912
                           SYSTEMS_EMD.
   116   0605013A         INFORMATION             69,761         69,761
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   117   0605018A         INTEGRATED             138,465        138,465
                           PERSONNEL AND
                           PAY SYSTEM-ARMY
                           (IPPS-A).
   118   0605028A         ARMORED MULTI-          92,353         92,353
                           PURPOSE VEHICLE
                           (AMPV).
   119   0605030A         JOINT TACTICAL           8,440          8,440
                           NETWORK CENTER
                           (JTNC).
   120   0605031A         JOINT TACTICAL          17,999         17,999
                           NETWORK (JTN).
   121   0605035A         COMMON INFRARED        145,409        145,409
                           COUNTERMEASURES
                           (CIRCM).
   122   0605350A         WIN-T INCREMENT        113,210        113,210
                           3_FULL
                           NETWORKING.
   123   0605380A         AMF JOINT                6,882          6,882
                           TACTICAL RADIO
                           SYSTEM (JTRS).
   124   0605450A         JOINT AIR-TO-           83,838         83,838
                           GROUND MISSILE
                           (JAGM).
   125   0605456A         PAC-3/MSE               35,009         35,009
                           MISSILE.
   126   0605457A         ARMY INTEGRATED        142,584        142,584
                           AIR AND MISSILE
                           DEFENSE (AIAMD).
   127   0605625A         MANNED GROUND           49,160         49,160
                           VEHICLE.
   128   0605626A         AERIAL COMMON           17,748         17,748
                           SENSOR.
   129   0605766A         NATIONAL                15,212         15,212
                           CAPABILITIES
                           INTEGRATION
                           (MIP).
   130   0605812A         JOINT LIGHT             45,718         45,718
                           TACTICAL
                           VEHICLE (JLTV)
                           ENGINEERING AND
                           MANUFACTURING
                           DEVELOPMENT PH.
   131   0605830A         AVIATION GROUND         10,041         10,041
                           SUPPORT
                           EQUIPMENT.
   132   0210609A         PALADIN                 83,300         83,300
                           INTEGRATED
                           MANAGEMENT
                           (PIM).
   133   0303032A         TROJAN_RH12.....           983            983
   134   0304270A         ELECTRONIC               8,961          8,961
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,719,374      1,726,638
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             DEMONSTRATION
         ...............
         ...............  RDT&E MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT.
   135   0604256A         THREAT SIMULATOR        18,062         18,062
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   136   0604258A         TARGET SYSTEMS          10,040         10,040
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   137   0604759A         MAJOR T&E               60,317         60,317
                           INVESTMENT.
   138   0605103A         RAND ARROYO             20,612         20,612
                           CENTER.
   139   0605301A         ARMY KWAJALEIN         176,041        176,041
                           ATOLL.
   140   0605326A         CONCEPTS                19,439         19,439
                           EXPERIMENTATION
                           PROGRAM.
   142   0605601A         ARMY TEST RANGES       275,025        275,025
                           AND FACILITIES.
   143   0605602A         ARMY TECHNICAL          45,596         45,596
                           TEST
                           INSTRUMENTATION
                           AND TARGETS.
   144   0605604A         SURVIVABILITY/          33,295         33,295
                           LETHALITY
                           ANALYSIS.
   145   0605606A         AIRCRAFT                 4,700          4,700
                           CERTIFICATION.
   146   0605702A         METEOROLOGICAL           6,413          6,413
                           SUPPORT TO
                           RDT&E
                           ACTIVITIES.
   147   0605706A         MATERIEL SYSTEMS        20,746         20,746
                           ANALYSIS.
   148   0605709A         EXPLOITATION OF          7,015          7,015
                           FOREIGN ITEMS.
   149   0605712A         SUPPORT OF              49,221         49,221
                           OPERATIONAL
                           TESTING.
   150   0605716A         ARMY EVALUATION         55,039         55,039
                           CENTER.
   151   0605718A         ARMY MODELING &          1,125          1,125
                           SIM X-CMD
                           COLLABORATION &
                           INTEG.
   152   0605801A         PROGRAMWIDE             64,169         64,169
                           ACTIVITIES.
   153   0605803A         TECHNICAL               32,319         32,319
                           INFORMATION
                           ACTIVITIES.
   154   0605805A         MUNITIONS               49,052         49,052
                           STANDARDIZATION
                           , EFFECTIVENESS
                           AND SAFETY.
   155   0605857A         ENVIRONMENTAL            2,612          2,612
                           QUALITY
                           TECHNOLOGY MGMT
                           SUPPORT.
   156   0605898A         MANAGEMENT              49,592         49,592
                           HQ_R&D.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,000,430      1,000,430
                             RDT&E
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT
   158   0603778A         MLRS PRODUCT            17,112         17,112
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   159   0607141A         LOGISTICS                3,654          3,654
                           AUTOMATION.
   160   0607664A         BIOMETRIC                1,332          1,332
                           ENABLING
                           CAPABILITY
                           (BEC).
   161   0607865A         PATRIOT PRODUCT        152,991        152,991
                           IMPROVEMENT.
   162   0102419A         AEROSTAT JOINT          54,076         41,576
                           PROJECT OFFICE.
         ...............      Funding                          [-12,500]
                              ahead of
                              need.
   163   0203726A         ADV FIELD               22,374         22,374
                           ARTILLERY
                           TACTICAL DATA
                           SYSTEM.
   164   0203728A         JOINT AUTOMATED         24,371         24,371
                           DEEP OPERATION
                           COORDINATION
                           SYSTEM (JADOCS).
   165   0203735A         COMBAT VEHICLE         295,177        321,177
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............      Stryker ECP                       [26,000]
                              risk
                              mitigation.
   166   0203740A         MANEUVER CONTROL        45,092         45,092
                           SYSTEM.
   167   0203744A         AIRCRAFT               264,887        264,887
                           MODIFICATIONS/
                           PRODUCT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAMS.
   168   0203752A         AIRCRAFT ENGINE            381            381
                           COMPONENT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   169   0203758A         DIGITIZATION....        10,912         10,912
   170   0203801A         MISSILE/AIR              5,115          5,115
                           DEFENSE PRODUCT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   171   0203802A         OTHER MISSILE           49,848         44,848
                           PRODUCT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............      Contract                          [-5,000]
                              delay for
                              ATACMS.
   172   0203808A         TRACTOR CARD....        22,691         22,691
   173   0205402A         INTEGRATED BASE          4,364          4,364
                           DEFENSE_OPERATI
                           ONAL SYSTEM DEV.
   174   0205410A         MATERIALS                  834            834
                           HANDLING
                           EQUIPMENT.
   175   0205412A         ENVIRONMENTAL              280            280
                           QUALITY
                           TECHNOLOGY_OPER
                           ATIONAL SYSTEM
                           DEV.
   176   0205456A         LOWER TIER AIR          78,758         78,758
                           AND MISSILE
                           DEFENSE (AMD)
                           SYSTEM.
   177   0205778A         GUIDED MULTIPLE-        45,377         45,377
                           LAUNCH ROCKET
                           SYSTEM (GMLRS).
   178   0208053A         JOINT TACTICAL          10,209         10,209
                           GROUND SYSTEM.
   181   0303028A         SECURITY AND            12,525         12,525
                           INTELLIGENCE
                           ACTIVITIES.
   182   0303140A         INFORMATION             14,175         14,175
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
   183   0303141A         GLOBAL COMBAT            4,527          4,527
                           SUPPORT SYSTEM.
   184   0303142A         SATCOM GROUND           11,011         11,011
                           ENVIRONMENT
                           (SPACE).
   185   0303150A         WWMCCS/GLOBAL            2,151          2,151
                           COMMAND AND
                           CONTROL SYSTEM.
   187   0305204A         TACTICAL                22,870         22,870
                           UNMANNED AERIAL
                           VEHICLES.
   188   0305208A         DISTRIBUTED             20,155         20,155
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   189   0305219A         MQ-1C GRAY EAGLE        46,472         46,472
                           UAS.
   191   0305233A         RQ-7 UAV........        16,389         16,389
   192   0307665A         BIOMETRICS               1,974          1,974
                           ENABLED
                           INTELLIGENCE.
   193   0310349A         WIN-T INCREMENT          3,249          3,249
                           2_INITIAL
                           NETWORKING.
   194   0708045A         END ITEM                76,225         76,225
                           INDUSTRIAL
                           PREPAREDNESS
                           ACTIVITIES.
  194A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED               4,802          4,802
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,346,360      1,354,860
                             OPERATIONAL
                             SYSTEMS
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL           6,593,898      6,612,315
                               RESEARCH,
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               , TEST &
                               EVAL, ARMY
         ...............
         ...............  RESEARCH,
                           DEVELOPMENT,
                           TEST & EVAL,
                           NAVY
         ...............  BASIC RESEARCH
   001   0601103N         UNIVERSITY             113,908        133,908
                           RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVES.
         ...............      Basic                             [20,000]
                              research
                              program
                              increase.
   002   0601152N         IN-HOUSE                18,734         18,734
                           LABORATORY
                           INDEPENDENT
                           RESEARCH.
   003   0601153N         DEFENSE RESEARCH       443,697        443,697
                           SCIENCES.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            576,339        596,339
                             BASIC
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  APPLIED RESEARCH
   004   0602114N         POWER PROJECTION        95,753         95,753
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   005   0602123N         FORCE PROTECTION       139,496        139,496
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   006   0602131M         MARINE CORPS            45,831         45,831
                           LANDING FORCE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   007   0602235N         COMMON PICTURE          43,541         43,541
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   008   0602236N         WARFIGHTER              46,923         46,923
                           SUSTAINMENT
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   009   0602271N         ELECTROMAGNETIC        107,872        107,872
                           SYSTEMS APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   010   0602435N         OCEAN                   45,388         65,388
                           WARFIGHTING
                           ENVIRONMENT
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
         ...............      Service Life                      [20,000]
                              extension
                              for the AGOR
                              ships.
   011   0602651M         JOINT NON-LETHAL         5,887          5,887
                           WEAPONS APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   012   0602747N         UNDERSEA WARFARE        86,880         86,880
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   013   0602750N         FUTURE NAVAL           170,786        170,786
                           CAPABILITIES
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   014   0602782N         MINE AND                32,526         32,526
                           EXPEDITIONARY
                           WARFARE APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            820,883        840,883
                             APPLIED
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT
   015   0603114N         POWER PROJECTION        37,734         37,734
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   016   0603123N         FORCE PROTECTION        25,831         25,831
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   017   0603271N         ELECTROMAGNETIC         64,623         64,623
                           SYSTEMS
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   018   0603640M         USMC ADVANCED          128,397        128,397
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEMONSTRATION
                           (ATD).
   019   0603651M         JOINT NON-LETHAL        11,506         11,506
                           WEAPONS
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   020   0603673N         FUTURE NAVAL           256,144        256,144
                           CAPABILITIES
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   021   0603729N         WARFIGHTER               4,838          4,838
                           PROTECTION
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   022   0603747N         UNDERSEA WARFARE         9,985          9,985
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   023   0603758N         NAVY WARFIGHTING        53,956         53,956
                           EXPERIMENTS AND
                           DEMONSTRATIONS.
   024   0603782N         MINE AND                 2,000          2,000
                           EXPEDITIONARY
                           WARFARE
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            595,014        595,014
                             ADVANCED
                             TECHNOLOGY
                             DEVELOPMENT
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           COMPONENT
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           PROTOTYPES
   025   0603207N         AIR/OCEAN               40,429         40,429
                           TACTICAL
                           APPLICATIONS.
   026   0603216N         AVIATION                 4,325          4,325
                           SURVIVABILITY.
   027   0603237N         DEPLOYABLE JOINT         2,991          2,991
                           COMMAND AND
                           CONTROL.
   028   0603251N         AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS        12,651         12,651
   029   0603254N         ASW SYSTEMS              7,782          7,782
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   030   0603261N         TACTICAL                 5,275          5,275
                           AIRBORNE
                           RECONNAISSANCE.
   031   0603382N         ADVANCED COMBAT          1,646          1,646
                           SYSTEMS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   032   0603502N         SURFACE AND            100,349        100,349
                           SHALLOW WATER
                           MINE
                           COUNTERMEASURES.
   033   0603506N         SURFACE SHIP            52,781         52,781
                           TORPEDO DEFENSE.
   034   0603512N         CARRIER SYSTEMS          5,959          5,959
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   035   0603525N         PILOT FISH......       148,865        148,865
   036   0603527N         RETRACT LARCH...        25,365         25,365
   037   0603536N         RETRACT JUNIPER.        80,477         80,477
   038   0603542N         RADIOLOGICAL               669            669
                           CONTROL.
   039   0603553N         SURFACE ASW.....         1,060          1,060
   040   0603561N         ADVANCED                70,551         70,551
                           SUBMARINE
                           SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   041   0603562N         SUBMARINE                8,044          8,044
                           TACTICAL
                           WARFARE SYSTEMS.
   042   0603563N         SHIP CONCEPT            17,864         17,864
                           ADVANCED DESIGN.
   043   0603564N         SHIP PRELIMINARY        23,716         20,411
                           DESIGN &
                           FEASIBILITY
                           STUDIES.
         ...............      CSC contract                      [-3,305]
                              award delay.
   044   0603570N         ADVANCED NUCLEAR       499,961        499,961
                           POWER SYSTEMS.
   045   0603573N         ADVANCED SURFACE        21,026         21,026
                           MACHINERY
                           SYSTEMS.
   046   0603576N         CHALK EAGLE.....       542,700        542,700
   047   0603581N         LITTORAL COMBAT         88,734         88,734
                           SHIP (LCS).
   048   0603582N         COMBAT SYSTEM           20,881         20,881
                           INTEGRATION.
   049   0603595N         OHIO REPLACEMENT       849,277        849,277
   050   0603596N         LCS MISSION            196,948        173,348
                           MODULES.
         ...............      Program                          [-23,600]
                              execution.
   051   0603597N         AUTOMATED TEST           8,115          8,115
                           AND RE-TEST
                           (ATRT).
   052   0603609N         CONVENTIONAL             7,603          7,603
                           MUNITIONS.
   053   0603611M         MARINE CORPS           105,749        105,749
                           ASSAULT
                           VEHICLES.
   054   0603635M         MARINE CORPS             1,342          1,342
                           GROUND COMBAT/
                           SUPPORT SYSTEM.
   055   0603654N         JOINT SERVICE           21,399         21,399
                           EXPLOSIVE
                           ORDNANCE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   056   0603658N         COOPERATIVE             43,578         42,578
                           ENGAGEMENT.
         ...............      Common array                      [-1,000]
                              block
                              antenna
                              program
                              growth.
   057   0603713N         OCEAN                    7,764          7,764
                           ENGINEERING
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   058   0603721N         ENVIRONMENTAL           13,200         13,200
                           PROTECTION.
   059   0603724N         NAVY ENERGY             69,415         69,415
                           PROGRAM.
   060   0603725N         FACILITIES               2,588          2,588
                           IMPROVEMENT.
   061   0603734N         CHALK CORAL.....       176,301        176,301
   062   0603739N         NAVY LOGISTIC            3,873          3,873
                           PRODUCTIVITY.
   063   0603746N         RETRACT MAPLE...       376,028        376,028
   064   0603748N         LINK PLUMERIA...       272,096        272,096
   065   0603751N         RETRACT ELM.....        42,233         42,233
   066   0603764N         LINK EVERGREEN..        46,504         46,504
   067   0603787N         SPECIAL                 25,109         25,109
                           PROCESSES.
   068   0603790N         NATO RESEARCH            9,659          9,659
                           AND DEVELOPMENT.
   069   0603795N         LAND ATTACK                318            318
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   070   0603851M         JOINT NON-LETHAL        40,912         40,912
                           WEAPONS TESTING.
   071   0603860N         JOINT PRECISION         54,896         41,896
                           APPROACH AND
                           LANDING
                           SYSTEMS_DEM/VAL.
         ...............      Program                          [-13,000]
                              delay.
   073   0603925N         DIRECTED ENERGY         58,696         58,696
                           AND ELECTRIC
                           WEAPON SYSTEMS.
   074   0604112N         GERALD R. FORD          43,613         43,613
                           CLASS NUCLEAR
                           AIRCRAFT
                           CARRIER (CVN
                           78_80).
   075   0604122N         REMOTE                  21,110         21,110
                           MINEHUNTING
                           SYSTEM (RMS).
   076   0604272N         TACTICAL AIR             5,657          5,657
                           DIRECTIONAL
                           INFRARED
                           COUNTERMEASURES
                           (TADIRCM).
   077   0604279N         ASE SELF-                8,033          5,923
                           PROTECTION
                           OPTIMIZATION.
         ...............      Unjustified                       [-2,110]
                              request for
                              test assets.
   078   0604454N         LX (R)..........        36,859         36,859
   079   0604653N         JOINT COUNTER           15,227         15,227
                           RADIO
                           CONTROLLED IED
                           ELECTRONIC
                           WARFARE (JCREW).
   081   0604707N         SPACE AND               22,393         22,393
                           ELECTRONIC
                           WARFARE (SEW)
                           ARCHITECTURE/
                           ENGINEERING
                           SUPPORT.
   082   0604786N         OFFENSIVE ANTI-        202,939        202,939
                           SURFACE WARFARE
                           WEAPON
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   083   0605812M         JOINT LIGHT             11,450         11,450
                           TACTICAL
                           VEHICLE (JLTV)
                           ENGINEERING AND
                           MANUFACTURING
                           DEVELOPMENT PH.
   084   0303354N         ASW SYSTEMS              6,495          6,495
                           DEVELOPMENT_MIP.
   085   0304270N         ELECTRONIC                 332            332
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT_MIP.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          4,591,812      4,548,797
                             ADVANCED
                             COMPONENT
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             PROTOTYPES
         ...............
         ...............  SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           DEMONSTRATION
   086   0603208N         TRAINING SYSTEM         25,153         25,153
                           AIRCRAFT.
   087   0604212N         OTHER HELO              46,154         46,154
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   088   0604214N         AV-8B                   25,372         25,372
                           AIRCRAFT_ENG
                           DEV.
   089   0604215N         STANDARDS               53,712         53,712
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   090   0604216N         MULTI-MISSION           11,434         11,434
                           HELICOPTER
                           UPGRADE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   091   0604218N         AIR/OCEAN                2,164          2,164
                           EQUIPMENT
                           ENGINEERING.
   092   0604221N         P-3                      1,710          1,710
                           MODERNIZATION
                           PROGRAM.
   093   0604230N         WARFARE SUPPORT          9,094          9,094
                           SYSTEM.
   094   0604231N         TACTICAL COMMAND        70,248         62,140
                           SYSTEM.
         ...............      64-bit                            [-3,000]
                              architecture
                              phasing.
         ...............      Program                           [-5,108]
                              execution.
   095   0604234N         ADVANCED HAWKEYE       193,200        193,200
   096   0604245N         H-1 UPGRADES....        44,115         44,115
   097   0604261N         ACOUSTIC SEARCH         23,227         23,227
                           SENSORS.
   098   0604262N         V-22A...........        61,249         61,249
   099   0604264N         AIR CREW SYSTEMS        15,014         15,014
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   100   0604269N         EA-18...........        18,730         18,730
   101   0604270N         ELECTRONIC              28,742         28,742
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   102   0604273N         EXECUTIVE HELO         388,086        388,086
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   103   0604274N         NEXT GENERATION        246,856        246,856
                           JAMMER (NGJ).
   104   0604280N         JOINT TACTICAL           7,106          7,106
                           RADIO
                           SYSTEM_NAVY
                           (JTRS-NAVY).
   105   0604307N         SURFACE                189,112        189,112
                           COMBATANT
                           COMBAT SYSTEM
                           ENGINEERING.
   106   0604311N         LPD-17 CLASS               376            376
                           SYSTEMS
                           INTEGRATION.
   107   0604329N         SMALL DIAMETER          71,849         61,849
                           BOMB (SDB).
         ...............      Small                            [-10,000]
                              diameter
                              bomb II
                              integration
                              program
                              growth.
   108   0604366N         STANDARD MISSILE        53,198         53,198
                           IMPROVEMENTS.
   109   0604373N         AIRBORNE MCM....        38,941         38,941
   110   0604376M         MARINE AIR               7,832          7,832
                           GROUND TASK
                           FORCE (MAGTF)
                           ELECTRONIC
                           WARFARE (EW)
                           FOR AVIATION.
   111   0604378N         NAVAL INTEGRATED        15,263         15,263
                           FIRE
                           CONTROL_COUNTER
                           AIR SYSTEMS
                           ENGINEERING.
   112   0604404N         UNMANNED CARRIER       403,017        403,017
                           LAUNCHED
                           AIRBORNE
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           AND STRIKE
                           (UCLASS) SYSTEM.
   113   0604501N         ADVANCED ABOVE          20,409         20,409
                           WATER SENSORS.
   114   0604503N         SSN-688 AND             71,565         71,565
                           TRIDENT
                           MODERNIZATION.
   115   0604504N         AIR CONTROL.....        29,037         29,037
   116   0604512N         SHIPBOARD              122,083        122,083
                           AVIATION
                           SYSTEMS.
   118   0604522N         ADVANCED MISSILE       144,706        144,706
                           DEFENSE RADAR
                           (AMDR) SYSTEM.
   119   0604558N         NEW DESIGN SSN..        72,695         72,695
   120   0604562N         SUBMARINE               38,985         38,985
                           TACTICAL
                           WARFARE SYSTEM.
   121   0604567N         SHIP CONTRACT           48,470         48,470
                           DESIGN/ LIVE
                           FIRE T&E.
   122   0604574N         NAVY TACTICAL            3,935          3,935
                           COMPUTER
                           RESOURCES.
   123   0604580N         VIRGINIA PAYLOAD       132,602        132,602
                           MODULE (VPM).
   124   0604601N         MINE DEVELOPMENT        19,067         14,067
         ...............      Mine                              [-5,000]
                              Development
                              program
                              growth.
   125   0604610N         LIGHTWEIGHT             25,280         25,280
                           TORPEDO
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   126   0604654N         JOINT SERVICE            8,985          8,985
                           EXPLOSIVE
                           ORDNANCE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   127   0604703N         PERSONNEL,               7,669          7,669
                           TRAINING,
                           SIMULATION, AND
                           HUMAN FACTORS.
   128   0604727N         JOINT STANDOFF           4,400          4,400
                           WEAPON SYSTEMS.
   129   0604755N         SHIP SELF               56,889         56,889
                           DEFENSE (DETECT
                           & CONTROL).
   130   0604756N         SHIP SELF               96,937         96,937
                           DEFENSE
                           (ENGAGE: HARD
                           KILL).
   131   0604757N         SHIP SELF              134,564        121,339
                           DEFENSE
                           (ENGAGE: SOFT
                           KILL/EW).
         ...............      SEWIP block                      [-13,225]
                              3
                              preliminary
                              design
                              contract
                              delay.
   132   0604761N         INTELLIGENCE               200            200
                           ENGINEERING.
   133   0604771N         MEDICAL                  8,287          8,287
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   134   0604777N         NAVIGATION/ID           29,504         29,504
                           SYSTEM.
   135   0604800M         JOINT STRIKE           513,021        513,021
                           FIGHTER
                           (JSF)_EMD.
   136   0604800N         JOINT STRIKE           516,456        516,456
                           FIGHTER
                           (JSF)_EMD.
   137   0605013M         INFORMATION              2,887          2,887
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   138   0605013N         INFORMATION             66,317         66,317
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   139   0605212N         CH-53K RDTE.....       573,187        573,187
   140   0605220N         SHIP TO SHORE           67,815         67,815
                           CONNECTOR (SSC).
   141   0605450N         JOINT AIR-TO-            6,300          6,300
                           GROUND MISSILE
                           (JAGM).
   142   0605500N         MULTI-MISSION          308,037        319,037
                           MARITIME
                           AIRCRAFT (MMA).
         ...............      Spiral 2                          [-4,000]
                              government
                              systems
                              engineering
                              program
                              growth.
         ...............      Wideband                          [15,000]
                              Communicatio
                              n
                              Development.
   143   0204202N         DDG-1000........       202,522        202,522
   144   0304231N         TACTICAL COMMAND         1,011          1,011
                           SYSTEM_MIP.
   145   0304785N         TACTICAL                10,357         10,357
                           CRYPTOLOGIC
                           SYSTEMS.
   146   0305124N         SPECIAL                 23,975         23,975
                           APPLICATIONS
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          5,419,108      5,393,775
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             DEMONSTRATION
         ...............
         ...............  MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT
   147   0604256N         THREAT SIMULATOR        45,272         45,272
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   148   0604258N         TARGET SYSTEMS          79,718         69,718
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............      GQM-173A                         [-10,000]
                              program
                              delay.
   149   0604759N         MAJOR T&E              123,993        123,993
                           INVESTMENT.
   150   0605126N         JOINT THEATER            4,960          4,960
                           AIR AND MISSILE
                           DEFENSE
                           ORGANIZATION.
   151   0605152N         STUDIES AND              8,296          8,296
                           ANALYSIS
                           SUPPORT_NAVY.
   152   0605154N         CENTER FOR NAVAL        45,752         45,752
                           ANALYSES.
   154   0605804N         TECHNICAL                  876            876
                           INFORMATION
                           SERVICES.
   155   0605853N         MANAGEMENT,             72,070         72,070
                           TECHNICAL &
                           INTERNATIONAL
                           SUPPORT.
   156   0605856N         STRATEGIC                3,237          3,237
                           TECHNICAL
                           SUPPORT.
   157   0605861N         RDT&E SCIENCE           73,033         73,033
                           AND TECHNOLOGY
                           MANAGEMENT.
   158   0605863N         RDT&E SHIP AND         138,304        138,304
                           AIRCRAFT
                           SUPPORT.
   159   0605864N         TEST AND               336,286        336,286
                           EVALUATION
                           SUPPORT.
   160   0605865N         OPERATIONAL TEST        16,658         16,658
                           AND EVALUATION
                           CAPABILITY.
   161   0605866N         NAVY SPACE AND           2,505          2,505
                           ELECTRONIC
                           WARFARE (SEW)
                           SUPPORT.
   162   0605867N         SEW SURVEILLANCE/        8,325          8,325
                           RECONNAISSANCE
                           SUPPORT.
   163   0605873M         MARINE CORPS            17,866         17,866
                           PROGRAM WIDE
                           SUPPORT.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            977,151        967,151
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT
   168   0604402N         UNMANNED COMBAT         35,949         35,949
                           AIR VEHICLE
                           (UCAV) ADVANCED
                           COMPONENT AND
                           PROTOTYPE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   169   0604766M         MARINE CORPS               215            215
                           DATA SYSTEMS.
   170   0605525N         CARRIER ONBOARD          8,873          8,873
                           DELIVERY (COD)
                           FOLLOW ON.
   172   0101221N         STRATEGIC SUB &         96,943         96,943
                           WEAPONS SYSTEM
                           SUPPORT.
   173   0101224N         SSBN SECURITY           30,057         30,057
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           PROGRAM.
   174   0101226N         SUBMARINE                4,509          4,509
                           ACOUSTIC
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   175   0101402N         NAVY STRATEGIC          13,676         13,676
                           COMMUNICATIONS.
   176   0203761N         RAPID TECHNOLOGY        12,480         12,480
                           TRANSITION
                           (RTT).
   177   0204136N         F/A-18 SQUADRONS        76,216         76,216
   179   0204163N         FLEET                   27,281         27,281
                           TELECOMMUNICATI
                           ONS (TACTICAL).
   180   0204228N         SURFACE SUPPORT.         2,878          2,878
   181   0204229N         TOMAHAWK AND            32,385         32,385
                           TOMAHAWK
                           MISSION
                           PLANNING CENTER
                           (TMPC).
   182   0204311N         INTEGRATED              39,371         39,371
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           SYSTEM.
   183   0204413N         AMPHIBIOUS               4,609          4,609
                           TACTICAL
                           SUPPORT UNITS
                           (DISPLACEMENT
                           CRAFT).
   184   0204460M         GROUND/AIR TASK         99,106         92,106
                           ORIENTED RADAR
                           (G/ATOR).
         ...............      Unjustified                       [-7,000]
                              cost growth.
   185   0204571N         CONSOLIDATED            39,922         39,922
                           TRAINING
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   186   0204574N         CRYPTOLOGIC              1,157          1,157
                           DIRECT SUPPORT.
   187   0204575N         ELECTRONIC              22,067         22,067
                           WARFARE (EW)
                           READINESS
                           SUPPORT.
   188   0205601N         HARM IMPROVEMENT        17,420         17,420
   189   0205604N         TACTICAL DATA          151,208        151,208
                           LINKS.
   190   0205620N         SURFACE ASW             26,366         26,366
                           COMBAT SYSTEM
                           INTEGRATION.
   191   0205632N         MK-48 ADCAP.....        25,952         25,952
   192   0205633N         AVIATION               106,936        106,936
                           IMPROVEMENTS.
   194   0205675N         OPERATIONAL            104,023        104,023
                           NUCLEAR POWER
                           SYSTEMS.
   195   0206313M         MARINE CORPS            77,398         77,398
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           SYSTEMS.
   196   0206335M         COMMON AVIATION         32,495         32,495
                           COMMAND AND
                           CONTROL SYSTEM
                           (CAC2S).
   197   0206623M         MARINE CORPS           156,626        156,626
                           GROUND COMBAT/
                           SUPPORTING ARMS
                           SYSTEMS.
   198   0206624M         MARINE CORPS            20,999         20,999
                           COMBAT SERVICES
                           SUPPORT.
   199   0206625M         USMC                    14,179         14,179
                           INTELLIGENCE/
                           ELECTRONIC
                           WARFARE SYSTEMS
                           (MIP).
   200   0207161N         TACTICAL AIM            47,258         47,258
                           MISSILES.
   201   0207163N         ADVANCED MEDIUM         10,210         10,210
                           RANGE AIR-TO-
                           AIR MISSILE
                           (AMRAAM).
   206   0303109N         SATELLITE               41,829         41,829
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           (SPACE).
   207   0303138N         CONSOLIDATED            22,780         22,780
                           AFLOAT NETWORK
                           ENTERPRISE
                           SERVICES
                           (CANES).
   208   0303140N         INFORMATION             23,053         23,053
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
   209   0303150M         WWMCCS/GLOBAL              296            296
                           COMMAND AND
                           CONTROL SYSTEM.
   212   0305160N         NAVY                       359            359
                           METEOROLOGICAL
                           AND OCEAN
                           SENSORS-SPACE
                           (METOC).
   213   0305192N         MILITARY                 6,166          6,166
                           INTELLIGENCE
                           PROGRAM (MIP)
                           ACTIVITIES.
   214   0305204N         TACTICAL                 8,505          8,505
                           UNMANNED AERIAL
                           VEHICLES.
   216   0305208M         DISTRIBUTED             11,613         11,613
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   217   0305208N         DISTRIBUTED             18,146         18,146
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   218   0305220N         RQ-4 UAV........       498,003        463,003
         ...............      Milestone C                      [-35,000]
                              delay.
   219   0305231N         MQ-8 UAV........        47,294         47,294
   220   0305232M         RQ-11 UAV.......           718            718
   221   0305233N         RQ-7 UAV........           851            851
   222   0305234N         SMALL (LEVEL 0)          4,813          4,813
                           TACTICAL UAS
                           (STUASL0).
   223   0305239M         RQ-21A..........         8,192          8,192
   224   0305241N         MULTI-                  22,559         18,664
                           INTELLIGENCE
                           SENSOR
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............      Program                           [-3,895]
                              execution.
   225   0305242M         UNMANNED AERIAL          2,000          2,000
                           SYSTEMS (UAS)
                           PAYLOADS (MIP).
   226   0308601N         MODELING AND             4,719          4,719
                           SIMULATION
                           SUPPORT.
   227   0702207N         DEPOT                   21,168         21,168
                           MAINTENANCE
                           (NON-IF).
   228   0708011N         INDUSTRIAL              37,169         37,169
                           PREPAREDNESS.
   229   0708730N         MARITIME                 4,347          4,347
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           (MARITECH).
  229A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED           1,162,684      1,162,684
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          3,286,028      3,240,133
                             OPERATIONAL
                             SYSTEMS
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL          16,266,335     16,182,092
                               RESEARCH,
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               , TEST &
                               EVAL, NAVY
         ...............
         ...............  RESEARCH,
                           DEVELOPMENT,
                           TEST & EVAL, AF
         ...............  BASIC RESEARCH..
   001   0601102F         DEFENSE RESEARCH       314,482        314,482
                           SCIENCES.
   002   0601103F         UNIVERSITY             127,079        147,079
                           RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVES.
         ...............      Basic                             [20,000]
                              research
                              program
                              increase.
   003   0601108F         HIGH ENERGY             12,929         12,929
                           LASER RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVES.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            454,490        474,490
                             BASIC
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  APPLIED RESEARCH
   004   0602102F         MATERIALS.......       105,680        105,680
   005   0602201F         AEROSPACE              105,747        105,747
                           VEHICLE
                           TECHNOLOGIES.
   006   0602202F         HUMAN                   81,957         81,957
                           EFFECTIVENESS
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   007   0602203F         AEROSPACE              172,550        172,550
                           PROPULSION.
   008   0602204F         AEROSPACE              118,343        118,343
                           SENSORS.
   009   0602601F         SPACE TECHNOLOGY        98,229         98,229
   010   0602602F         CONVENTIONAL            87,387         87,387
                           MUNITIONS.
   011   0602605F         DIRECTED ENERGY        125,955        125,955
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   012   0602788F         DOMINANT               147,789        147,789
                           INFORMATION
                           SCIENCES AND
                           METHODS.
   013   0602890F         HIGH ENERGY             37,496         37,496
                           LASER RESEARCH.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,081,133      1,081,133
                             APPLIED
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT
   014   0603112F         ADVANCED                32,177         42,177
                           MATERIALS FOR
                           WEAPON SYSTEMS.
         ...............      Metals                            [10,000]
                              Affordabilit
                              y Initiative.
   015   0603199F         SUSTAINMENT             15,800         15,800
                           SCIENCE AND
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           (S&T).
   016   0603203F         ADVANCED                34,420         34,420
                           AEROSPACE
                           SENSORS.
   017   0603211F         AEROSPACE               91,062         91,062
                           TECHNOLOGY DEV/
                           DEMO.
   018   0603216F         AEROSPACE              124,236        124,236
                           PROPULSION AND
                           POWER
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   019   0603270F         ELECTRONIC              47,602         47,602
                           COMBAT
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   020   0603401F         ADVANCED                69,026         69,026
                           SPACECRAFT
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   021   0603444F         MAUI SPACE              14,031         14,031
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           SYSTEM (MSSS).
   022   0603456F         HUMAN                   21,788         21,788
                           EFFECTIVENESS
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   023   0603601F         CONVENTIONAL            42,046         42,046
                           WEAPONS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   024   0603605F         ADVANCED WEAPONS        23,542         23,542
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   025   0603680F         MANUFACTURING           42,772         42,772
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           PROGRAM.
   026   0603788F         BATTLESPACE             35,315         35,315
                           KNOWLEDGE
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           DEMONSTRATION.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            593,817        603,817
                             ADVANCED
                             TECHNOLOGY
                             DEVELOPMENT
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           COMPONENT
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           PROTOTYPES
   027   0603260F         INTELLIGENCE             5,408          5,408
                           ADVANCED
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   031   0603438F         SPACE CONTROL            6,075          6,075
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   032   0603742F         COMBAT                  10,980         10,980
                           IDENTIFICATION
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   033   0603790F         NATO RESEARCH            2,392          2,392
                           AND DEVELOPMENT.
   034   0603791F         INTERNATIONAL              833            833
                           SPACE
                           COOPERATIVE R&D.
   035   0603830F         SPACE SECURITY          32,313         32,313
                           AND DEFENSE
                           PROGRAM.
   037   0603851F         INTERCONTINENTAL        30,885         30,885
                           BALLISTIC
                           MISSILE_DEM/VAL.
   039   0603859F         POLLUTION                1,798          1,798
                           PREVENTION_DEM/
                           VAL.
   040   0604015F         LONG RANGE             913,728        913,728
                           STRIKE.
   042   0604317F         TECHNOLOGY               2,669          2,669
                           TRANSFER.
   045   0604422F         WEATHER SYSTEM          39,901         39,901
                           FOLLOW-ON.
   049   0604800F         F-35_EMD........         4,976              0
         ...............      Transfer F-                       [-4,976]
                              35 EMD: Air
                              Force
                              requested to
                              line #75.
   050   0604857F         OPERATIONALLY                          20,000
                           RESPONSIVE
                           SPACE.
         ...............      Program                           [20,000]
                              Increase.
   051   0604858F         TECH TRANSITION         59,004         59,004
                           PROGRAM.
   054   0207110F         NEXT GENERATION         15,722         15,722
                           AIR DOMINANCE.
   055   0207455F         THREE                   88,825         88,825
                           DIMENSIONAL
                           LONG-RANGE
                           RADAR (3DELRR).
   056   0305164F         NAVSTAR GLOBAL         156,659        156,659
                           POSITIONING
                           SYSTEM (USER
                           EQUIPMENT)
                           (SPACE).
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,372,168      1,387,192
                             ADVANCED
                             COMPONENT
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             PROTOTYPES
         ...............
         ...............  SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           DEMONSTRATION
   059   0604233F         SPECIALIZED             13,324         13,324
                           UNDERGRADUATE
                           FLIGHT TRAINING.
   060   0604270F         ELECTRONIC               1,965          1,965
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   061   0604281F         TACTICAL DATA           39,110         39,110
                           NETWORKS
                           ENTERPRISE.
   062   0604287F         PHYSICAL                 3,926          3,926
                           SECURITY
                           EQUIPMENT.
   063   0604329F         SMALL DIAMETER          68,759         68,759
                           BOMB (SDB)_EMD.
   064   0604421F         COUNTERSPACE            23,746         23,746
                           SYSTEMS.
   065   0604425F         SPACE SITUATION          9,462          9,462
                           AWARENESS
                           SYSTEMS.
   066   0604426F         SPACE FENCE.....       214,131        200,131
         ...............      Program                          [-14,000]
                              delay.
   067   0604429F         AIRBORNE                30,687         30,687
                           ELECTRONIC
                           ATTACK.
   068   0604441F         SPACE BASED            319,501        311,501
                           INFRARED SYSTEM
                           (SBIRS) HIGH
                           EMD.
         ...............      Wide field                        [-8,000]
                              of view test
                              bed.
   069   0604602F         ARMAMENT/               31,112         31,112
                           ORDNANCE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   070   0604604F         SUBMUNITIONS....         2,543          2,543
   071   0604617F         AGILE COMBAT            46,340         46,340
                           SUPPORT.
   072   0604706F         LIFE SUPPORT             8,854          8,854
                           SYSTEMS.
   073   0604735F         COMBAT TRAINING         10,129         10,129
                           RANGES.
   075   0604800F         F-35_EMD........       563,037        568,013
         ...............      Transfer F-                        [4,976]
                              35 EMD: Air
                              Force
                              requested
                              from line
                              #49.
   077   0604853F         EVOLVED                               220,000
                           EXPENDABLE
                           LAUNCH VEHICLE
                           PROGRAM
                           (SPACE)_EMD.
         ...............      Rocket                           [220,000]
                              propulsion
                              system.
   078   0604932F         LONG RANGE               4,938          3,438
                           STANDOFF WEAPON.
         ...............      Execution                         [-1,500]
                              adjustment.
   079   0604933F         ICBM FUZE               59,826         59,826
                           MODERNIZATION.
   080   0605030F         JOINT TACTICAL              78             78
                           NETWORK CENTER
                           (JTNC).
   081   0605213F         F-22                   173,647        173,647
                           MODERNIZATION
                           INCREMENT 3.2B.
   082   0605214F         GROUND ATTACK            5,332          5,332
                           WEAPONS FUZE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   083   0605221F         KC-46...........       776,937        776,937
   084   0605223F         ADVANCED PILOT           8,201          8,201
                           TRAINING.
   086   0605278F         HC/MC-130 RECAP          7,497          7,497
                           RDT&E.
   087   0605431F         ADVANCED EHF           314,378        314,378
                           MILSATCOM
                           (SPACE).
   088   0605432F         POLAR MILSATCOM        103,552        103,552
                           (SPACE).
   089   0605433F         WIDEBAND GLOBAL         31,425         31,425
                           SATCOM (SPACE).
   090   0605458F         AIR & SPACE OPS         85,938         85,938
                           CENTER 10.2
                           RDT&E.
   091   0605931F         B-2 DEFENSIVE           98,768         98,768
                           MANAGEMENT
                           SYSTEM.
   092   0101125F         NUCLEAR WEAPONS        198,357        198,357
                           MODERNIZATION.
   094   0207701F         FULL COMBAT              8,831          8,831
                           MISSION
                           TRAINING.
   095   0307581F         NEXTGEN JSTARS..        73,088         73,088
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          3,337,419      3,538,895
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             DEMONSTRATION
         ...............
         ...............  MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT
   097   0604256F         THREAT SIMULATOR        24,418         24,418
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   098   0604759F         MAJOR T&E               47,232         47,232
                           INVESTMENT.
   099   0605101F         RAND PROJECT AIR        30,443         30,443
                           FORCE.
   101   0605712F         INITIAL                 12,266         12,266
                           OPERATIONAL
                           TEST &
                           EVALUATION.
   102   0605807F         TEST AND               689,509        689,509
                           EVALUATION
                           SUPPORT.
   103   0605860F         ROCKET SYSTEMS          34,364         34,364
                           LAUNCH PROGRAM
                           (SPACE).
   104   0605864F         SPACE TEST              21,161         21,161
                           PROGRAM (STP).
   105   0605976F         FACILITIES              46,955         46,955
                           RESTORATION AND
                           MODERNIZATION_T
                           EST AND
                           EVALUATION
                           SUPPORT.
   106   0605978F         FACILITIES              32,965         32,965
                           SUSTAINMENT_TES
                           T AND
                           EVALUATION
                           SUPPORT.
   107   0606017F         REQUIREMENTS            13,850         13,850
                           ANALYSIS AND
                           MATURATION.
   108   0606116F         SPACE TEST AND          19,512         19,512
                           TRAINING RANGE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   110   0606392F         SPACE AND              181,727        177,800
                           MISSILE CENTER
                           (SMC) CIVILIAN
                           WORKFORCE.
         ...............      Personnel                         [-3,927]
                              costs excess
                              to need.
   111   0308602F         ENTEPRISE                4,938          4,938
                           INFORMATION
                           SERVICES (EIS).
   112   0702806F         ACQUISITION AND         18,644         18,644
                           MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT.
   113   0804731F         GENERAL SKILL            1,425          1,425
                           TRAINING.
   114   1001004F         INTERNATIONAL            3,790          3,790
                           ACTIVITIES.
  114A   XXXXXXXF         EJECTION SEAT                           3,500
                           RELIABILITY
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      Initial                            [3,500]
                              Aircraft
                              Qualificatio
                              n.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,183,199      1,182,772
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   115   0603423F         GLOBAL                 299,760        299,760
                           POSITIONING
                           SYSTEM
                           III_OPERATIONAL
                           CONTROL SEGMENT.
   116   0604445F         WIDE AREA                               2,000
                           SURVEILLANCE.
         ...............      Implementati                       [2,000]
                              on of the
                              Secretary's
                              Cruise
                              Missile
                              Defense
                              Program.
   118   0604618F         JOINT DIRECT             2,469          2,469
                           ATTACK MUNITION.
   119   0605018F         AF INTEGRATED           90,218         60,218
                           PERSONNEL AND
                           PAY SYSTEM (AF-
                           IPPS).
         ...............      Delayed                          [-30,000]
                              contract
                              award.
   120   0605024F         ANTI-TAMPER             34,815         34,815
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           EXECUTIVE
                           AGENCY.
   122   0101113F         B-52 SQUADRONS..        55,457         55,457
   123   0101122F         AIR-LAUNCHED               450            450
                           CRUISE MISSILE
                           (ALCM).
   124   0101126F         B-1B SQUADRONS..         5,353          4,353
         ...............      Execution                         [-1,000]
                              adjustment.
   125   0101127F         B-2 SQUADRONS...       131,580        111,580
         ...............      Flexible                         [-20,000]
                              Strike
                              execution
                              delay.
   126   0101213F         MINUTEMAN              139,109        139,109
                           SQUADRONS.
   127   0101313F         STRAT WAR               35,603         35,603
                           PLANNING
                           SYSTEM_USSTRATC
                           OM.
   128   0101314F         NIGHT                       32             32
                           FIST_USSTRATCOM.
   130   0102326F         REGION/SECTOR            1,522          1,522
                           OPERATION
                           CONTROL CENTER
                           MODERNIZATION
                           PROGRAM.
   131   0105921F         SERVICE SUPPORT          3,134          3,134
                           TO
                           STRATCOM_SPACE
                           ACTIVITIES.
   133   0205219F         MQ-9 UAV........       170,396        170,396
   136   0207133F         F-16 SQUADRONS..       133,105        133,105
   137   0207134F         F-15E SQUADRONS.       261,969        251,969
         ...............      Execution                        [-10,000]
                              adjustment.
   138   0207136F         MANNED                  14,831         14,831
                           DESTRUCTIVE
                           SUPPRESSION.
   139   0207138F         F-22A SQUADRONS.       156,962        151,962
         ...............      Unjustified                       [-5,000]
                              increase_
                              laboratory
                              test and
                              operations.
   140   0207142F         F-35 SQUADRONS..        43,666         43,666
   141   0207161F         TACTICAL AIM            29,739         29,739
                           MISSILES.
   142   0207163F         ADVANCED MEDIUM         82,195         82,195
                           RANGE AIR-TO-
                           AIR MISSILE
                           (AMRAAM).
   144   0207171F         F-15 EPAWSS.....        68,944         53,444
         ...............      Delays in                        [-15,500]
                              pre-EMD
                              phase.
   145   0207224F         COMBAT RESCUE            5,095          5,095
                           AND RECOVERY.
   146   0207227F         COMBAT                     883            883
                           RESCUE_PARARESC
                           UE.
   147   0207247F         AF TENCAP.......         5,812          5,812
   148   0207249F         PRECISION ATTACK         1,081          1,081
                           SYSTEMS
                           PROCUREMENT.
   149   0207253F         COMPASS CALL....        14,411         14,411
   150   0207268F         AIRCRAFT ENGINE        109,664        109,664
                           COMPONENT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   151   0207325F         JOINT AIR-TO-           15,897         15,897
                           SURFACE
                           STANDOFF
                           MISSILE (JASSM).
   152   0207410F         AIR & SPACE             41,066         41,066
                           OPERATIONS
                           CENTER (AOC).
   153   0207412F         CONTROL AND                552            552
                           REPORTING
                           CENTER (CRC).
   154   0207417F         AIRBORNE WARNING       180,804        180,804
                           AND CONTROL
                           SYSTEM (AWACS).
   155   0207418F         TACTICAL                 3,754          3,754
                           AIRBORNE
                           CONTROL SYSTEMS.
   157   0207431F         COMBAT AIR               7,891          7,891
                           INTELLIGENCE
                           SYSTEM
                           ACTIVITIES.
   158   0207444F         TACTICAL AIR             5,891          5,891
                           CONTROL PARTY-
                           MOD.
   159   0207448F         C2ISR TACTICAL           1,782          1,782
                           DATA LINK.
   161   0207452F         DCAPES..........           821            821
   163   0207590F         SEEK EAGLE......        23,844         23,844
   164   0207601F         USAF MODELING           16,723         16,723
                           AND SIMULATION.
   165   0207605F         WARGAMING AND            5,956          5,956
                           SIMULATION
                           CENTERS.
   166   0207697F         DISTRIBUTED              4,457          4,457
                           TRAINING AND
                           EXERCISES.
   167   0208006F         MISSION PLANNING        60,679         60,679
                           SYSTEMS.
   169   0208059F         CYBER COMMAND           67,057         67,057
                           ACTIVITIES.
   170   0208087F         AF OFFENSIVE            13,355         13,355
                           CYBERSPACE
                           OPERATIONS.
   171   0208088F         AF DEFENSIVE             5,576          5,576
                           CYBERSPACE
                           OPERATIONS.
   179   0301400F         SPACE                   12,218         12,218
                           SUPERIORITY
                           INTELLIGENCE.
   180   0302015F         E-4B NATIONAL           28,778         22,978
                           AIRBORNE
                           OPERATIONS
                           CENTER (NAOC).
         ...............      Low                               [-5,800]
                              Frequency
                              Transmit
                              System_delay
                              to contract
                              award.
   181   0303131F         MINIMUM                 81,035         81,035
                           ESSENTIAL
                           EMERGENCY
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           NETWORK (MEECN).
   182   0303140F         INFORMATION             70,497         70,497
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
   183   0303141F         GLOBAL COMBAT              692            692
                           SUPPORT SYSTEM.
   185   0303601F         MILSATCOM               55,208         55,208
                           TERMINALS.
   187   0304260F         AIRBORNE SIGINT        106,786        106,786
                           ENTERPRISE.
   190   0305099F         GLOBAL AIR               4,157          4,157
                           TRAFFIC
                           MANAGEMENT
                           (GATM).
   193   0305110F         SATELLITE               20,806         20,806
                           CONTROL NETWORK
                           (SPACE).
   194   0305111F         WEATHER SERVICE.        25,102         25,102
   195   0305114F         AIR TRAFFIC             23,516         23,516
                           CONTROL,
                           APPROACH, AND
                           LANDING SYSTEM
                           (ATCALS).
   196   0305116F         AERIAL TARGETS..         8,639          8,639
   199   0305128F         SECURITY AND               498            498
                           INVESTIGATIVE
                           ACTIVITIES.
   200   0305145F         ARMS CONTROL            13,222         13,222
                           IMPLEMENTATION.
   201   0305146F         DEFENSE JOINT              360            360
                           COUNTERINTELLIG
                           ENCE ACTIVITIES.
   206   0305173F         SPACE AND                3,674          3,674
                           MISSILE TEST
                           AND EVALUATION
                           CENTER.
   207   0305174F         SPACE                    2,480          2,480
                           INNOVATION,
                           INTEGRATION AND
                           RAPID
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   208   0305179F         INTEGRATED               8,592          8,592
                           BROADCAST
                           SERVICE (IBS).
   209   0305182F         SPACELIFT RANGE         13,462         13,462
                           SYSTEM (SPACE).
   210   0305202F         DRAGON U-2......         5,511          5,511
   212   0305206F         AIRBORNE                28,113         38,113
                           RECONNAISSANCE
                           SYSTEMS.
         ...............      Per Air                           [10,000]
                              Force UFR.
   213   0305207F         MANNED                  13,516         13,516
                           RECONNAISSANCE
                           SYSTEMS.
   214   0305208F         DISTRIBUTED             27,265         27,265
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   215   0305219F         MQ-1 PREDATOR A          1,378          1,378
                           UAV.
   216   0305220F         RQ-4 UAV........       244,514        244,514
   217   0305221F         NETWORK-CENTRIC         11,096         11,096
                           COLLABORATIVE
                           TARGETING.
   218   0305236F         COMMON DATA LINK        36,137         36,137
                           (CDL).
   219   0305238F         NATO AGS........       232,851        232,851
   220   0305240F         SUPPORT TO DCGS         20,218         20,218
                           ENTERPRISE.
   221   0305265F         GPS III SPACE          212,571        212,571
                           SEGMENT.
   222   0305614F         JSPOC MISSION           73,779         73,779
                           SYSTEM.
   223   0305881F         RAPID CYBER              4,102          4,102
                           ACQUISITION.
   225   0305913F         NUDET DETECTION         20,468         20,468
                           SYSTEM (SPACE).
   226   0305940F         SPACE SITUATION         11,596         11,596
                           AWARENESS
                           OPERATIONS.
   227   0306250F         CYBER OPERATIONS         4,938          4,938
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   228   0308699F         SHARED EARLY             1,212          1,212
                           WARNING (SEW).
   230   0401119F         C-5 AIRLIFT             38,773         38,773
                           SQUADRONS (IF).
   231   0401130F         C-17 AIRCRAFT           83,773         83,773
                           (IF).
   232   0401132F         C-130J PROGRAM..        26,715         26,715
   233   0401134F         LARGE AIRCRAFT           5,172          5,172
                           IR
                           COUNTERMEASURES
                           (LAIRCM).
   234   0401219F         KC-10S..........         2,714          2,714
   235   0401314F         OPERATIONAL             27,784         27,784
                           SUPPORT AIRLIFT.
   236   0401318F         CV-22...........        38,719         38,719
   237   0401319F         PRESIDENTIAL            11,006         11,006
                           AIRCRAFT
                           REPLACEMENT
                           (PAR).
   238   0408011F         SPECIAL TACTICS /        8,405          8,405
                            COMBAT CONTROL.
   239   0702207F         DEPOT                    1,407          1,407
                           MAINTENANCE
                           (NON-IF).
   241   0708610F         LOGISTICS              109,685        109,685
                           INFORMATION
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           (LOGIT).
   242   0708611F         SUPPORT SYSTEMS         16,209         16,209
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   243   0804743F         OTHER FLIGHT               987            987
                           TRAINING.
   244   0808716F         OTHER PERSONNEL            126            126
                           ACTIVITIES.
   245   0901202F         JOINT PERSONNEL          2,603          2,603
                           RECOVERY AGENCY.
   246   0901218F         CIVILIAN                 1,589          1,589
                           COMPENSATION
                           PROGRAM.
   247   0901220F         PERSONNEL                5,026          5,026
                           ADMINISTRATION.
   248   0901226F         AIR FORCE                1,394          1,394
                           STUDIES AND
                           ANALYSIS AGENCY.
   249   0901279F         FACILITIES               3,798          3,798
                           OPERATION_ADMIN
                           ISTRATIVE.
   250   0901538F         FINANCIAL              107,314        102,685
                           MANAGEMENT
                           INFORMATION
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............      Defense                           [-4,629]
                              Enterprise
                              Accounting
                              Management
                              System
                              Increment 2.
  250A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED          11,441,120     11,412,120
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............      Classified                       [-29,000]
                              program
                              reduction.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL         15,717,666     15,608,737
                             OPERATIONAL
                             SYSTEMS
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL          23,739,892     23,877,036
                               RESEARCH,
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               , TEST &
                               EVAL, AF
         ...............
         ...............  RESEARCH,
                           DEVELOPMENT,
                           TEST & EVAL, DW
         ...............  BASIC RESEARCH
   001   0601000BR        DTRA BASIC              37,778         37,778
                           RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVE.
   002   0601101E         DEFENSE RESEARCH       312,146        332,146
                           SCIENCES.
         ...............      Basic                             [20,000]
                              research
                              program
                              increase.
   003   0601110D8Z       BASIC RESEARCH          44,564         34,564
                           INITIATIVES.
         ...............      National                         [-10,000]
                              Security
                              Science and
                              Engineering
                              Faculty
                              Fellowship
                              program.
   004   0601117E         BASIC                   49,848         49,848
                           OPERATIONAL
                           MEDICAL
                           RESEARCH
                           SCIENCE.
   005   0601120D8Z       NATIONAL DEFENSE        45,488         55,488
                           EDUCATION
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      Military                          [10,000]
                              Child STEM
                              Education
                              programs.
   006   0601228D8Z       HISTORICALLY            24,412         34,412
                           BLACK COLLEGES
                           AND
                           UNIVERSITIES/
                           MINORITY
                           INSTITUTIONS.
         ...............      Program                           [10,000]
                              increase.
   007   0601384BP        CHEMICAL AND            48,261         48,261
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE PROGRAM.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            562,497        592,497
                             BASIC
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  APPLIED RESEARCH
   008   0602000D8Z       JOINT MUNITIONS         20,065         20,065
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   009   0602115E         BIOMEDICAL             112,242        112,242
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   011   0602234D8Z       LINCOLN                 51,875         51,875
                           LABORATORY
                           RESEARCH
                           PROGRAM.
   012   0602251D8Z       APPLIED RESEARCH        41,965         41,965
                           FOR THE
                           ADVANCEMENT OF
                           S&T PRIORITIES.
   013   0602303E         INFORMATION &          334,407        334,407
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   015   0602383E         BIOLOGICAL              44,825         44,825
                           WARFARE DEFENSE.
   016   0602384BP        CHEMICAL AND           226,317        226,317
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE PROGRAM.
   018   0602668D8Z       CYBER SECURITY          15,000         15,000
                           RESEARCH.
   020   0602702E         TACTICAL               305,484        305,484
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   021   0602715E         MATERIALS AND          160,389        160,389
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   022   0602716E         ELECTRONICS            179,203        179,203
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   023   0602718BR        WEAPONS OF MASS        151,737        151,737
                           DESTRUCTION
                           DEFEAT
                           TECHNOLOGIES.
   024   0602751D8Z       SOFTWARE                 9,156          9,156
                           ENGINEERING
                           INSTITUTE (SEI)
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   025   1160401BB        SOF TECHNOLOGY          39,750         39,750
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,692,415      1,692,415
                             APPLIED
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT
   026   0603000D8Z       JOINT MUNITIONS         26,688         26,688
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   027   0603121D8Z       SO/LIC ADVANCED          8,682          8,682
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   028   0603122D8Z       COMBATING               69,675         89,675
                           TERRORISM
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           SUPPORT.
         ...............      Program                           [20,000]
                              emphasis for
                              CT and
                              Irregular
                              Warfare
                              Programs.
   029   0603133D8Z       FOREIGN                 30,000         24,000
                           COMPARATIVE
                           TESTING.
         ...............      Program                           [-6,000]
                              decrease.
   030   0603160BR        COUNTERPROLIFERA       283,694        283,694
                           TION
                           INITIATIVES_PRO
                           LIFERATION
                           PREVENTION AND
                           DEFEAT.
   032   0603176C         ADVANCED                 8,470          8,470
                           CONCEPTS AND
                           PERFORMANCE
                           ASSESSMENT.
   033   0603177C         DISCRIMINATION          45,110         43,110
                           SENSOR
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Unjustified                       [-2,000]
                              growth.
   034   0603178C         WEAPONS                 14,068         14,068
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   035   0603179C         ADVANCED C4ISR..        15,329         15,329
   036   0603180C         ADVANCED                16,584         16,584
                           RESEARCH.
   037   0603225D8Z       JOINT DOD-DOE           19,335         19,335
                           MUNITIONS
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   038   0603264S         AGILE                    2,544          2,544
                           TRANSPORTATION
                           FOR THE 21ST
                           CENTURY
                           (AT21)_THEATER
                           CAPABILITY.
   039   0603274C         SPECIAL                 51,033         51,033
                           PROGRAM_MDA
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   040   0603286E         ADVANCED               129,723        129,723
                           AEROSPACE
                           SYSTEMS.
   041   0603287E         SPACE PROGRAMS         179,883        179,883
                           AND TECHNOLOGY.
   042   0603288D8Z       ANALYTIC                12,000         12,000
                           ASSESSMENTS.
   043   0603289D8Z       ADVANCED                60,000         50,000
                           INNOVATIVE
                           ANALYSIS AND
                           CONCEPTS.
         ...............      Program                          [-10,000]
                              reduction.
   044   0603294C         COMMON KILL             25,639         25,639
                           VEHICLE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   045   0603384BP        CHEMICAL AND           132,674        132,674
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           PROGRAM_ADVANCE
                           D DEVELOPMENT.
   046   0603618D8Z       JOINT ELECTRONIC        10,965         10,965
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   047   0603648D8Z       JOINT CAPABILITY       131,960        121,960
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEMONSTRATIONS.
         ...............      Program                          [-10,000]
                              reduction.
   052   0603680D8Z       DEFENSE-WIDE            91,095         91,095
                           MANUFACTURING
                           SCIENCE AND
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           PROGRAM.
   053   0603699D8Z       EMERGING                33,706         33,706
                           CAPABILITIES
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   054   0603712S         GENERIC                 16,836         16,836
                           LOGISTICS R&D
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEMONSTRATIONS.
   055   0603713S         DEPLOYMENT AND          29,683         29,683
                           DISTRIBUTION
                           ENTERPRISE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   056   0603716D8Z       STRATEGIC               57,796         57,796
                           ENVIRONMENTAL
                           RESEARCH
                           PROGRAM.
   057   0603720S         MICROELECTRONICS        72,144         72,144
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           SUPPORT.
   058   0603727D8Z       JOINT                    7,405          7,405
                           WARFIGHTING
                           PROGRAM.
   059   0603739E         ADVANCED                92,246         92,246
                           ELECTRONICS
                           TECHNOLOGIES.
   060   0603760E         COMMAND, CONTROL       243,265        243,265
                           AND
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           SYSTEMS.
   062   0603766E         NETWORK-CENTRIC        386,926        386,926
                           WARFARE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   063   0603767E         SENSOR                 312,821        312,821
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   064   0603769SE        DISTRIBUTED             10,692         10,692
                           LEARNING
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   065   0603781D8Z       SOFTWARE                15,776         15,776
                           ENGINEERING
                           INSTITUTE.
   066   0603826D8Z       QUICK REACTION          69,319         64,319
                           SPECIAL
                           PROJECTS.
         ...............      Program                           [-5,000]
                              decrease.
   068   0603832D8Z       DOD MODELING AND         3,000          3,000
                           SIMULATION
                           MANAGEMENT
                           OFFICE.
   071   0603941D8Z       TEST &                  81,148         81,148
                           EVALUATION
                           SCIENCE &
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   072   0604055D8Z       OPERATIONAL             31,800         31,800
                           ENERGY
                           CAPABILITY
                           IMPROVEMENT.
   073   0303310D8Z       CWMD SYSTEMS....        46,066         46,066
   074   1160402BB        SOF ADVANCED            57,622         57,622
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          2,933,402      2,920,402
                             ADVANCED
                             TECHNOLOGY
                             DEVELOPMENT
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           COMPONENT
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           PROTOTYPES
   077   0603161D8Z       NUCLEAR AND             41,072         41,072
                           CONVENTIONAL
                           PHYSICAL
                           SECURITY
                           EQUIPMENT RDT&E
                           ADC&P.
   079   0603600D8Z       WALKOFF.........        90,558         90,558
   080   0603714D8Z       ADVANCED SENSORS        15,518         19,518
                           APPLICATION
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      Continue                           [4,000]
                              important
                              test
                              programs.
   081   0603851D8Z       ENVIRONMENTAL           51,462         51,462
                           SECURITY
                           TECHNICAL
                           CERTIFICATION
                           PROGRAM.
   082   0603881C         BALLISTIC              299,598        292,798
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           TERMINAL
                           DEFENSE SEGMENT.
         ...............      THAAD 2.0                         [-6,800]
                              early to
                              need.
   083   0603882C         BALLISTIC            1,003,768      1,043,768
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           MIDCOURSE
                           DEFENSE SEGMENT.
         ...............      GMD                               [40,000]
                              reliability
                              and
                              maintenance
                              improvements.
   084   0603884BP        CHEMICAL AND           179,236        179,236
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           PROGRAM_DEM/VAL.
   085   0603884C         BALLISTIC              392,893        392,893
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           SENSORS.
   086   0603890C         BMD ENABLING           410,863        410,863
                           PROGRAMS.
   087   0603891C         SPECIAL                310,261        310,261
                           PROGRAMS_MDA.
   088   0603892C         AEGIS BMD.......       929,208        929,208
   089   0603893C         SPACE TRACKING &        31,346         31,346
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           SYSTEM.
   090   0603895C         BALLISTIC                6,389          6,389
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           SYSTEM SPACE
                           PROGRAMS.
   091   0603896C         BALLISTIC              443,484        431,484
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           COMMAND AND
                           CONTROL, BATTLE
                           MANAGEMENT AND
                           COMMUNICATI.
         ...............      Spiral 8.2-                      [-12,000]
                              3_unjustifie
                              d growth
                              without
                              baseline.
   092   0603898C         BALLISTIC               46,387         46,387
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           JOINT
                           WARFIGHTER
                           SUPPORT.
   093   0603904C         MISSILE DEFENSE         58,530         58,530
                           INTEGRATION &
                           OPERATIONS
                           CENTER (MDIOC).
   094   0603906C         REGARDING TRENCH        16,199         16,199
   095   0603907C         SEA BASED X-BAND        64,409         64,409
                           RADAR (SBX).
   096   0603913C         ISRAELI                 96,803        270,603
                           COOPERATIVE
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............      Program                          [173,800]
                              increase for
                              Israeli
                              Cooperative
                              Programs.
   097   0603914C         BALLISTIC              386,482        366,482
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           TEST.
         ...............      Test                             [-20,000]
                              efficiencies.
   098   0603915C         BALLISTIC              485,294        485,294
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           TARGETS.
   099   0603920D8Z       HUMANITARIAN            10,194         10,194
                           DEMINING.
   100   0603923D8Z       COALITION               10,139         10,139
                           WARFARE.
   101   0604016D8Z       DEPARTMENT OF            2,907          7,907
                           DEFENSE
                           CORROSION
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      Program                            [5,000]
                              increase.
   102   0604250D8Z       ADVANCED               190,000        170,000
                           INNOVATIVE
                           TECHNOLOGIES.
         ...............      Program                          [-20,000]
                              decrease.
   103   0604400D8Z       DEPARTMENT OF            3,702          3,702
                           DEFENSE (DOD)
                           UNMANNED
                           AIRCRAFT SYSTEM
                           (UAS) COMMON
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   104   0604445J         WIDE AREA               53,000         53,000
                           SURVEILLANCE.
   106   0604775D8Z       DEFENSE RAPID                          75,000
                           INNOVATION
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      Program                           [75,000]
                              increase.
   107   0604787J         JOINT SYSTEMS            7,002          7,002
                           INTEGRATION.
   108   0604828J         JOINT FIRES              7,102          7,102
                           INTEGRATION AND
                           INTEROPERABILIT
                           Y TEAM.
   109   0604880C         LAND-BASED SM-3        123,444        123,444
                           (LBSM3).
   110   0604881C         AEGIS SM-3 BLOCK       263,695        263,695
                           IIA CO-
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   113   0605170D8Z       SUPPORT TO              12,500         12,500
                           NETWORKS AND
                           INFORMATION
                           INTEGRATION.
   114   0303191D8Z       JOINT                    2,656          2,656
                           ELECTROMAGNETIC
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           (JET) PROGRAM.
   115   0305103C         CYBER SECURITY             961            961
                           INITIATIVE.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          6,047,062      6,286,062
                             ADVANCED
                             COMPONENT
                             DEVELOPMENT
                             AND
                             PROTOTYPES
         ...............
         ...............  SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           DEMONSTRATION
   116   0604161D8Z       NUCLEAR AND              7,936          7,936
                           CONVENTIONAL
                           PHYSICAL
                           SECURITY
                           EQUIPMENT RDT&E
                           SDD.
   117   0604165D8Z       PROMPT GLOBAL           70,762         70,762
                           STRIKE
                           CAPABILITY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   118   0604384BP        CHEMICAL AND           345,883        345,883
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           PROGRAM_EMD.
   119   0604764K         ADVANCED IT             25,459         25,459
                           SERVICES JOINT
                           PROGRAM OFFICE
                           (AITS-JPO).
   120   0604771D8Z       JOINT TACTICAL          17,562         17,562
                           INFORMATION
                           DISTRIBUTION
                           SYSTEM (JTIDS).
   121   0605000BR        WEAPONS OF MASS          6,887          6,887
                           DESTRUCTION
                           DEFEAT
                           CAPABILITIES.
   122   0605013BL        INFORMATION             12,530         12,530
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   123   0605021SE        HOMELAND                   286            286
                           PERSONNEL
                           SECURITY
                           INITIATIVE.
   124   0605022D8Z       DEFENSE                  3,244          3,244
                           EXPORTABILITY
                           PROGRAM.
   125   0605027D8Z       OUSD(C) IT               6,500          6,500
                           DEVELOPMENT
                           INITIATIVES.
   126   0605070S         DOD ENTERPRISE          15,326         15,326
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           DEMONSTRATION.
   127   0605075D8Z       DCMO POLICY AND         19,351         19,351
                           INTEGRATION.
   128   0605080S         DEFENSE AGENCY          41,465         41,465
                           INTIATIVES
                           (DAI)_FINANCIAL
                           SYSTEM.
   129   0605090S         DEFENSE RETIRED         10,135         10,135
                           AND ANNUITANT
                           PAY SYSTEM
                           (DRAS).
   130   0605210D8Z       DEFENSE-WIDE             9,546          9,546
                           ELECTRONIC
                           PROCUREMENT
                           CAPABILITIES.
   131   0303141K         GLOBAL COMBAT           14,241         14,241
                           SUPPORT SYSTEM.
   132   0305304D8Z       DOD ENTERPRISE           3,660          3,660
                           ENERGY
                           INFORMATION
                           MANAGEMENT
                           (EEIM).
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            610,773        610,773
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT
                             AND
                             DEMONSTRATION
         ...............
         ...............  MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT........
   133   0604774D8Z       DEFENSE                  5,616          5,616
                           READINESS
                           REPORTING
                           SYSTEM (DRRS).
   134   0604875D8Z       JOINT SYSTEMS            3,092          3,092
                           ARCHITECTURE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   135   0604940D8Z       CENTRAL TEST AND       254,503        254,503
                           EVALUATION
                           INVESTMENT
                           DEVELOPMENT
                           (CTEIP).
   136   0604942D8Z       ASSESSMENTS AND         21,661         21,661
                           EVALUATIONS.
   138   0605100D8Z       JOINT MISSION           27,162         27,162
                           ENVIRONMENT
                           TEST CAPABILITY
                           (JMETC).
   139   0605104D8Z       TECHNICAL               24,501         24,501
                           STUDIES,
                           SUPPORT AND
                           ANALYSIS.
   142   0605126J         JOINT INTEGRATED        43,176         43,176
                           AIR AND MISSILE
                           DEFENSE
                           ORGANIZATION
                           (JIAMDO).
   145   0605142D8Z       SYSTEMS                 44,246         44,246
                           ENGINEERING.
   146   0605151D8Z       STUDIES AND              2,665          2,665
                           ANALYSIS
                           SUPPORT_OSD.
   147   0605161D8Z       NUCLEAR MATTERS-         4,366          4,366
                           PHYSICAL
                           SECURITY.
   148   0605170D8Z       SUPPORT TO              27,901         27,901
                           NETWORKS AND
                           INFORMATION
                           INTEGRATION.
   149   0605200D8Z       GENERAL SUPPORT          2,855          2,855
                           TO USD
                           (INTELLIGENCE).
   150   0605384BP        CHEMICAL AND           105,944        105,944
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE PROGRAM.
   156   0605502KA        SMALL BUSINESS             400            400
                           INNOVATIVE
                           RESEARCH.
   159   0605790D8Z       SMALL BUSINESS           1,634          1,634
                           INNOVATION
                           RESEARCH (SBIR)/
                            SMALL BUSINESS
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           TRANSFER.
   160   0605798D8Z       DEFENSE                 12,105         12,105
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           ANALYSIS.
   161   0605801KA        DEFENSE                 50,389         50,389
                           TECHNICAL
                           INFORMATION
                           CENTER (DTIC).
   162   0605803SE        R&D IN SUPPORT           8,452          8,452
                           OF DOD
                           ENLISTMENT,
                           TESTING AND
                           EVALUATION.
   163   0605804D8Z       DEVELOPMENT TEST        15,187         19,187
                           AND EVALUATION.
         ...............      Program                            [4,000]
                              increase.
   164   0605898E         MANAGEMENT              71,362         71,362
                           HQ_R&D.
   165   0606100D8Z       BUDGET AND               4,100          4,100
                           PROGRAM
                           ASSESSMENTS.
   166   0203345D8Z       DEFENSE                  1,956          1,956
                           OPERATIONS
                           SECURITY
                           INITIATIVE
                           (DOSI).
   167   0204571J         JOINT STAFF             10,321         10,321
                           ANALYTICAL
                           SUPPORT.
   170   0303166J         SUPPORT TO              11,552         11,552
                           INFORMATION
                           OPERATIONS (IO)
                           CAPABILITIES.
   172   0305193D8Z       CYBER                    6,748          6,748
                           INTELLIGENCE.
   174   0804767D8Z       COCOM EXERCISE          44,005         44,005
                           ENGAGEMENT AND
                           TRAINING
                           TRANSFORMATION
                           (CE2T2).
   175   0901598C         MANAGEMENT              36,998         36,998
                           HQ_MDA.
   176   0901598D8W       MANAGEMENT                 612            612
                           HEADQUARTERS
                           WHS.
  177A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED              44,367         44,367
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            887,876        891,876
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT
   178   0604130V         ENTERPRISE               3,988          3,988
                           SECURITY SYSTEM
                           (ESS).
   179   0605127T         REGIONAL                 1,750          1,750
                           INTERNATIONAL
                           OUTREACH (RIO)
                           AND PARTNERSHIP
                           FOR PEACE
                           INFORMATION
                           MANA.
   180   0605147T         OVERSEAS                   286            286
                           HUMANITARIAN
                           ASSISTANCE
                           SHARED
                           INFORMATION
                           SYSTEM (OHASIS).
   181   0607210D8Z       INDUSTRIAL BASE         14,778         14,778
                           ANALYSIS AND
                           SUSTAINMENT
                           SUPPORT.
   182   0607310D8Z       OPERATIONAL              2,953          2,953
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   183   0607327T         GLOBAL THEATER          10,350         10,350
                           SECURITY
                           COOPERATION
                           MANAGEMENT
                           INFORMATION
                           SYSTEMS (G-
                           TSCMIS).
   184   0607384BP        CHEMICAL AND            28,496         28,496
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           (OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT).
   185   0607828J         JOINT                   11,968         11,968
                           INTEGRATION AND
                           INTEROPERABILIT
                           Y.
   186   0208043J         PLANNING AND             1,842          1,842
                           DECISION AID
                           SYSTEM (PDAS).
   187   0208045K         C4I                     63,558         63,558
                           INTEROPERABILIT
                           Y.
   189   0301144K         JOINT/ALLIED             3,931          3,931
                           COALITION
                           INFORMATION
                           SHARING.
   193   0302016K         NATIONAL                   924            924
                           MILITARY
                           COMMAND SYSTEM-
                           WIDE SUPPORT.
   194   0302019K         DEFENSE INFO             9,657          9,657
                           INFRASTRUCTURE
                           ENGINEERING AND
                           INTEGRATION.
   195   0303126K         LONG-HAUL               25,355         25,355
                           COMMUNICATIONS_
                           DCS.
   196   0303131K         MINIMUM                 12,671         12,671
                           ESSENTIAL
                           EMERGENCY
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           NETWORK (MEECN).
   197   0303135G         PUBLIC KEY                 222            222
                           INFRASTRUCTURE
                           (PKI).
   198   0303136G         KEY MANAGEMENT          32,698         32,698
                           INFRASTRUCTURE
                           (KMI).
   199   0303140D8Z       INFORMATION             11,304         11,304
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
   200   0303140G         INFORMATION            125,854        155,854
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      Accelerate                        [30,000]
                              SHARKSEER
                              deployment.
   202   0303150K         GLOBAL COMMAND          33,793         33,793
                           AND CONTROL
                           SYSTEM.
   203   0303153K         DEFENSE SPECTRUM        13,423         13,423
                           ORGANIZATION.
   204   0303170K         NET-CENTRIC              3,774          3,774
                           ENTERPRISE
                           SERVICES (NCES).
   205   0303260D8Z       DEFENSE MILITARY           951            951
                           DECEPTION
                           PROGRAM OFFICE
                           (DMDPO).
   206   0303610K         TELEPORT PROGRAM         2,697          2,697
   208   0304210BB        SPECIAL                 19,294         19,294
                           APPLICATIONS
                           FOR
                           CONTINGENCIES.
   212   0305103K         CYBER SECURITY           3,234          3,234
                           INITIATIVE.
   213   0305125D8Z       CRITICAL                 8,846          8,846
                           INFRASTRUCTURE
                           PROTECTION
                           (CIP).
   217   0305186D8Z       POLICY R&D               7,065          7,065
                           PROGRAMS.
   218   0305199D8Z       NET CENTRICITY..        23,984         23,984
   221   0305208BB        DISTRIBUTED              5,286          5,286
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   224   0305208K         DISTRIBUTED              3,400          3,400
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   229   0305327V         INSIDER THREAT..         8,670          8,670
   230   0305387D8Z       HOMELAND DEFENSE         2,110          2,110
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           TRANSFER
                           PROGRAM.
   239   0708011S         INDUSTRIAL              22,366         22,366
                           PREPAREDNESS.
   240   0708012S         LOGISTICS                1,574          1,574
                           SUPPORT
                           ACTIVITIES.
   241   0902298J         MANAGEMENT               4,409          4,409
                           HQ_OJCS.
   242   1105219BB        MQ-9 UAV........         9,702          9,702
   243   1105232BB        RQ-11 UAV.......           259            259
   245   1160403BB        AVIATION SYSTEMS       164,233        164,233
   247   1160405BB        INTELLIGENCE             9,490          9,490
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   248   1160408BB        OPERATIONAL             75,253         75,253
                           ENHANCEMENTS.
   252   1160431BB        WARRIOR SYSTEMS.        24,661         24,661
   253   1160432BB        SPECIAL PROGRAMS        20,908         20,908
   259   1160480BB        SO F TACTICAL            3,672          3,672
                           VEHICLES.
   262   1160483BB        MARITIME SYSTEMS        57,905         57,905
   264   1160489BB        GLOBAL VIDEO             3,788          3,788
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           ACTIVITIES.
   265   1160490BB        OPERATIONAL             16,225         16,225
                           ENHANCEMENTS
                           INTELLIGENCE.
  265A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED           3,118,502      3,118,502
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          4,032,059      4,062,059
                             OPERATIONAL
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............  UNDISTRIBUTED...
   266   9999999999       UNDISTRIBUTED...                      -69,000
         ...............      DARPA                            [-69,000]
                              undistribute
                              d reduction.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL                           -69,000
                             UNDISTRIBUTED.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL          16,766,084     16,987,084
                               RESEARCH,
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               , TEST &
                               EVAL, DW
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL TEST
                           & EVAL, DEFENSE.
         ...............  MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT.
   001   0605118OTE       OPERATIONAL TEST        74,583         74,583
                           AND EVALUATION.
   002   0605131OTE       LIVE FIRE TEST          45,142         45,142
                           AND EVALUATION.
   003   0605814OTE       OPERATIONAL TEST        48,013         48,013
                           ACTIVITIES AND
                           ANALYSES.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            167,738        167,738
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL             167,738        167,738
                               OPERATIONAL
                               TEST &
                               EVAL,
                               DEFENSE.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL RDT&E    63,533,947     63,826,265
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR OVERSEAS 
CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
   SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR OVERSEAS
            CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               FY 2015       Agreement
  Line    Program Element        Item          Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL,
                            ARMY
         ................  ADVANCED
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            PROTOTYPES
   060   0603747A          SOLDIER SUPPORT         4,500          4,500
                            AND
                            SURVIVABILITY.
         ................      SUBTOTAL            4,500          4,500
                               ADVANCED
                               COMPONENT
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               & PROTOTYPES
         ................
         ................       TOTAL              4,500          4,500
                                RESEARCH,
                                DEVELOPMENT
                                , TEST &
                                EVAL, ARMY
         ................
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL,
                            NAVY
         ................  OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEMS
                            DEVELOPMENT
   225   0305242M          UNMANNED AERIAL           940            940
                            SYSTEMS (UAS)
                            PAYLOADS (MIP).
  229A   9999999999        CLASSIFIED             35,080         35,080
                            PROGRAMS.
         ................      SUBTOTAL           36,020         36,020
                               OPERATIONAL
                               SYSTEMS
                               DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL             36,020         36,020
                                RESEARCH,
                                DEVELOPMENT
                                , TEST &
                                EVAL, NAVY
         ................
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL, AF
 
         ................  OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEMS
                            DEVELOPMENT
  250A   9999999999        CLASSIFIED             14,706         14,706
                            PROGRAMS.
         ................      SUBTOTAL           14,706         14,706
                               OPERATIONAL
                               SYSTEMS
                               DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL             14,706         14,706
                                RESEARCH,
                                DEVELOPMENT
                                , TEST &
                                EVAL, AF
         ................
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL, DW
 
         ................  APPLIED RESEARCH
   009   0602115E          BIOMEDICAL            112,000        112,000
                            TECHNOLOGY.
         ................      SUBTOTAL          112,000        112,000
                               APPLIED
                               RESEARCH.
         ................
         ................  OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEM
                            DEVELOPMENT
   242   1105219BB         MQ-9 UAV........                       5,200
         ................      MQ-9                              [5,200]
                               enhancements.
   248   1160408BB         OPERATIONAL             6,000          6,000
                            ENHANCEMENTS.
  265A   9999999999        CLASSIFIED            163,447        163,447
                            PROGRAMS.
         ................      SUBTOTAL          169,447        174,647
                               OPERATIONAL
                               SYSTEM
                               DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL            281,447        286,647
                                RESEARCH,
                                DEVELOPMENT
                                , TEST &
                                EVAL, DW
         ................
         ................       TOTAL RDT&E      336,673        341,873
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
     SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2015        Agreement
  Line                Item                   Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS................         969,281         969,281
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES......          61,990          61,990
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........         450,987         450,987
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........         545,773         545,773
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT       1,057,453       1,057,453
   060   AVIATION ASSETS...............       1,409,347       1,409,347
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS           3,592,334       3,524,334
          SUPPORT......................
             Fully fund two Combat                             [-68,000]
             Training Center
             rotations_Army requested
             transfer to OM,ARNG and
             MP,ARNG...................
   080   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS.         411,388         411,388
   090   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE.       1,001,232       1,001,232
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......       7,428,972       7,428,972
   110   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,              2,066,434       2,154,434
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Facilities Sustainment....                         [18,750]
             Readiness funding                                  [94,250]
             increase_fully funds 6%
             CIP.......................
             Transfer to Arlington                             [-25,000]
             National Cemetery.........
   120   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL             411,863         411,863
          HEADQUARTERS.................
   130   COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE              179,399         179,399
          OPERATIONS...................
   170   COMBATANT COMMANDS DIRECT              432,281         432,281
          MISSION SUPPORT..............
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.      20,018,734      20,038,734
 
         MOBILIZATION
   180   STRATEGIC MOBILITY............         316,776         316,776
   190   ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS.....         187,609         187,609
   200   INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS.......           6,463          86,463
             Industrial Base Intiative-                         [80,000]
             Body Armor................
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....         510,848         590,848
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   210   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........         124,766         124,766
   220   RECRUIT TRAINING..............          51,968          51,968
   230   ONE STATION UNIT TRAINING.....          43,735          43,735
   240   SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS                456,563         456,563
          TRAINING CORPS...............
   250   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....         886,529         886,529
   260   FLIGHT TRAINING...............         890,070         890,070
   270   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT               193,291         193,291
          EDUCATION....................
   280   TRAINING SUPPORT..............         552,359         552,359
   290   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....         466,927         466,927
   300   EXAMINING.....................         194,588         194,588
   310   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                 205,782         205,782
          EDUCATION....................
   320   CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND                 150,571         150,571
          TRAINING.....................
   330   JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICER                 169,784         169,784
          TRAINING CORPS...............
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND            4,386,933       4,386,933
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   350   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....         541,877         541,877
   360   CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES.....         722,291         722,291
   370   LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES...         602,034         602,034
   380   AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT.........         422,277         422,277
   390   ADMINISTRATION................         405,442         405,442
   400   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....       1,624,742       1,624,742
   410   MANPOWER MANAGEMENT...........         289,771         289,771
   420   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT.......         390,924         390,924
   430   OTHER SERVICE SUPPORT.........       1,118,540       1,118,540
   440   ARMY CLAIMS ACTIVITIES........         241,234         241,234
   450   REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT........         243,509         243,509
   460   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT         200,615         200,615
          READINESS....................
   470   INTERNATIONAL MILITARY                 462,591         462,591
          HEADQUARTERS.................
   480   MISC. SUPPORT OF OTHER NATIONS          27,375          27,375
  520A   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........       1,030,411       1,030,411
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE         8,323,633       8,323,633
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   530   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                        -296,400
             Foreign Currency                                  [-48,900]
             adjustments...............
             Program                                          [-247,500]
             decrease_overestimate of
             civilian personnel........
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                        -296,400
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              33,240,148      33,043,748
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES......          15,200          15,200
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........         502,664         502,664
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........         107,489         107,489
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT         543,989         543,989
   060   AVIATION ASSETS...............          72,963          72,963
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS             360,082         360,082
          SUPPORT......................
   080   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS.          72,491          72,491
   090   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE.          58,873          58,873
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......         388,961         388,961
   110   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                228,597         233,597
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Facilities Sustainment....                          [5,000]
   120   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL              39,590          39,590
          HEADQUARTERS.................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       2,390,899       2,395,899
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   130   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....          10,608          10,608
   140   ADMINISTRATION................          18,587          18,587
   150   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....           6,681           6,681
   160   MANPOWER MANAGEMENT...........           9,192           9,192
   170   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....          54,602          54,602
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              99,670          99,670
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   180   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                         -13,800
             Overestimation of civilian                        [-13,800]
             FTE targets...............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                         -13,800
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               2,490,569       2,481,769
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS................         660,648         683,648
             Transfer funding for 2 CTC                         [23,000]
             rotations.................
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES......         165,942         165,942
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........         733,800         733,800
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........          83,084          83,084
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT          22,005          22,005
   060   AVIATION ASSETS...............         920,085         920,085
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS             680,887         680,887
          SUPPORT......................
   080   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS.          69,726          69,726
   090   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE.         138,263         138,263
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......         804,517         794,517
             Remove one-time fiscal                            [-10,000]
             year 2014 funding increase
   110   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                490,205         495,205
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Facilities Sustainment....                          [5,000]
   120   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL             872,140         872,140
          HEADQUARTERS.................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       5,641,302       5,659,302
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   130   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....           6,690           6,690
   140   REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT........           1,765           1,765
   150   ADMINISTRATION................          63,075          63,075
   160   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....          37,372          37,372
   170   MANPOWER MANAGEMENT...........           6,484           6,484
   180   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT.......         274,085         260,285
             Program decrease for                              [-13,800]
             advertising...............
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD             389,471         375,671
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               6,030,773       6,034,973
              MAINTENANCE, ARNG........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT             4,947,202       4,947,202
          OPERATIONS...................
   020   FLEET AIR TRAINING............       1,647,943       1,647,943
   030   AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA &               37,050          37,050
          ENGINEERING SERVICES.........
   040   AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY               96,139          96,139
          SUPPORT......................
   050   AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT...........         363,763         363,763
   060   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE....         814,770         824,870
             CVN 73 Refueling and                               [10,100]
             Complex Overhaul (RCOH)...
   070   AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS               36,494          36,494
          SUPPORT......................
   080   AVIATION LOGISTICS............         350,641         350,641
   090   MISSION AND OTHER SHIP               3,865,379       3,865,379
          OPERATIONS...................
   100   SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT &              711,243         711,243
          TRAINING.....................
   110   SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE........       5,296,408       5,330,108
             CVN 73 Refueling and                               [33,700]
             Complex Overhaul (RCOH)...
   120   SHIP DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT.       1,339,077       1,339,377
             CVN 73 Refueling and                                  [300]
             Complex Overhaul (RCOH)...
   130   COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS.........         708,634         708,634
   140   ELECTRONIC WARFARE............          91,599          91,599
   150   SPACE SYSTEMS AND SURVEILLANCE         207,038         207,038
   160   WARFARE TACTICS...............         432,715         432,715
   170   OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND            338,116         338,116
          OCEANOGRAPHY.................
   180   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES.........         892,316         892,316
   190   EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.........         128,486         128,486
   200   DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT......           2,472           2,472
   210   COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE              101,200         101,200
          OPERATIONS...................
   220   COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT            188,920         188,920
          MISSION SUPPORT..............
   230   CRUISE MISSILE................         109,911         109,911
   240   FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE.......       1,172,823       1,172,823
   250   IN-SERVICE WEAPONS SYSTEMS             104,139         104,139
          SUPPORT......................
   260   WEAPONS MAINTENANCE...........         490,911         490,911
   270   OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT..         324,861         324,861
   290   ENTERPRISE INFORMATION........         936,743         936,743
   300   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND         1,483,495       1,587,495
          MODERNIZATION................
             Facilities Sustainment....                         [18,750]
             Readiness funding                                  [85,250]
             increase_fully funds 6%
             CIP.......................
   310   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........       4,398,667       4,398,667
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.      31,619,155      31,767,255
 
         MOBILIZATION
   320   SHIP PREPOSITIONING AND SURGE.         526,926         526,926
   330   READY RESERVE FORCE...........             195             195
   340   AIRCRAFT ACTIVATIONS/                    6,704           6,704
          INACTIVATIONS................
   350   SHIP ACTIVATIONS/INACTIVATIONS         251,538         205,538
             CVN 73 Refueling and                              [-46,000]
             Complex Overhaul (RCOH)...
   360   EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES          124,323         124,323
          SYSTEMS......................
   370   INDUSTRIAL READINESS..........           2,323           2,323
   380   COAST GUARD SUPPORT...........          20,333          20,333
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....         932,342         886,342
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   390   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........         156,214         156,214
   400   RECRUIT TRAINING..............           8,863           8,963
             CVN 73 Refueling and                                  [100]
             Complex Overhaul (RCOH)...
   410   RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING              148,150         148,150
          CORPS........................
   420   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....         601,501         608,701
             CVN 73 Refueling and                                [7,200]
             Complex Overhaul (RCOH)...
   430   FLIGHT TRAINING...............           8,239           8,239
   440   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT               164,214         165,214
          EDUCATION....................
             CVN 73 Refueling and                                [1,000]
             Complex Overhaul (RCOH)...
   450   TRAINING SUPPORT..............         182,619         183,519
             CVN 73 Refueling and                                  [900]
             Complex Overhaul (RCOH)...
   460   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....         230,589         231,737
             Naval Sea Cadet Corps.....                          [1,148]
   470   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                 115,595         115,595
          EDUCATION....................
   480   CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND                  79,606          79,606
          TRAINING.....................
   490   JUNIOR ROTC...................          41,664          41,664
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND            1,737,254       1,747,602
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   500   ADMINISTRATION................         858,871         858,871
   510   EXTERNAL RELATIONS............          12,807          12,807
   520   CIVILIAN MANPOWER AND                  119,863         119,863
          PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.........
   530   MILITARY MANPOWER AND                  356,113         357,013
          PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.........
             CVN 73 Refueling and                                  [900]
             Complex Overhaul (RCOH)...
   540   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT.......         255,605         255,605
   550   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....         339,802         339,802
   570   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....         172,203         172,203
   590   PLANNING, ENGINEERING AND              283,621         283,621
          DESIGN.......................
   600   ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM              1,111,464       1,111,464
          MANAGEMENT...................
   610   HULL, MECHANICAL AND                    43,232          43,232
          ELECTRICAL SUPPORT...........
   620   COMBAT/WEAPONS SYSTEMS........          25,689          25,689
   630   SPACE AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE            73,159          73,159
          SYSTEMS......................
   640   NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE...         548,640         548,640
   700   INTERNATIONAL HEADQUARTERS AND           4,713           4,713
          AGENCIES.....................
  720A   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........         531,324         531,324
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD           4,737,106       4,738,006
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   730   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                        -154,200
             Civilian personnel                                [-80,000]
             underexecution............
             Foreign Currency                                  [-74,200]
             adjustments...............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                        -154,200
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              39,025,857      38,985,005
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
          MARINE CORPS
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATIONAL FORCES............         905,744         939,544
             Crisis Response Operations                         [33,800]
             Unfunded Requirement......
   020   FIELD LOGISTICS...............         921,543         921,543
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............         229,058         229,058
   040   MARITIME PREPOSITIONING.......          87,660          87,660
   050   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION &             573,926         592,676
          MODERNIZATION................
             Facilities Sustainment....                         [18,750]
   060   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........       1,983,118       1,983,118
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       4,701,049       4,753,599
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   070   RECRUIT TRAINING..............          18,227          18,227
   080   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........             948             948
   090   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....          98,448          98,448
   100   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT                42,305          42,305
          EDUCATION....................
   110   TRAINING SUPPORT..............         330,156         330,156
   120   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....         161,752         161,752
   130   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                  19,137          19,137
          EDUCATION....................
   140   JUNIOR ROTC...................          23,277          23,277
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND              694,250         694,250
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   150   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....          36,359          36,359
   160   ADMINISTRATION................         362,608         353,508
             Marine Museum Unjustified                          [-9,100]
             Growth....................
   180   ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM                 70,515          70,515
          MANAGEMENT...................
  180A   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........          44,706          44,706
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD             514,188         505,088
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   190   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                         -28,400
             Foreign Currency                                  [-28,400]
             adjustments...............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                         -28,400
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               5,909,487       5,924,537
              MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT               565,842         573,742
          OPERATIONS...................
             CVN 73 Refueling and                                [7,900]
             Complex Overhaul (RCOH)...
   020   INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE......           5,948           5,948
   040   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE....          82,636          84,936
             CVN 73 Refueling and                                [2,300]
             Complex Overhaul (RCOH)...
   050   AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS                  353             353
          SUPPORT......................
   060   AVIATION LOGISTICS............           7,007           7,007
   070   MISSION AND OTHER SHIP                   8,190           8,190
          OPERATIONS...................
   080   SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT &                  556             556
          TRAINING.....................
   090   SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE........           4,571           4,571
   100   COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS.........          14,472          14,472
   110   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES.........         119,056         119,056
   120   WEAPONS MAINTENANCE...........           1,852           1,852
   130   ENTERPRISE INFORMATION........          25,354          25,354
   140   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND            48,271          53,098
          MODERNIZATION................
             Facilities Sustainment....                          [4,827]
   150   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........         101,921         101,921
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.         986,029       1,001,056
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   160   ADMINISTRATION................           1,520           1,520
   170   MILITARY MANPOWER AND                   12,998          12,998
          PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.........
   180   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....           3,395           3,395
   190   ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM                  3,158           3,158
          MANAGEMENT...................
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              21,071          21,071
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               1,007,100       1,022,127
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATING FORCES..............          93,093          93,093
   020   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............          18,377          18,377
   030   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND            29,232          33,132
          MODERNIZATION................
             Facilities Sustainment....                          [3,900]
   040   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........         106,447         106,447
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.         247,149         251,049
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   050   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....             914             914
   060   ADMINISTRATION................          11,831          11,831
   070   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....           8,688           8,688
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              21,433          21,433
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                 268,582         272,482
              MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE..
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR
          FORCE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES.........       3,163,457       3,172,057
             Nuclear Force Improvement                           [8,600]
             Program_Security Forces...
   020   COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES.....       1,694,339       1,694,339
   030   AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT,        1,579,178       1,579,178
          MAINTAIN SKILLS).............
   040   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............       6,119,522       6,028,400
             RC/OC-135 Contractor                               [-8,000]
             Logistics Support
             Unjustified Growth........
             Unjustified program growth                        [-83,122]
   050   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,              1,453,589       1,475,739
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Facilities Sustainment....                         [18,750]
             Nuclear Force Improvement                           [3,400]
             Program_Installation
             Surety....................
   060   BASE SUPPORT..................       2,599,419       2,589,419
             Remove one-time fiscal                            [-10,000]
             year 2014 funding increase
   070   GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING..         908,790         908,790
   080   OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS.         856,306         865,906
             Nuclear Force Improvement                           [9,600]
             Program_ICBM Training
             Hardware..................
   090   TACTICAL INTEL AND OTHER               800,689         800,689
          SPECIAL ACTIVITIES...........
   100   LAUNCH FACILITIES.............         282,710         282,710
   110   SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS.........         397,818         397,818
   120   COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT            871,840         860,840
          MISSION SUPPORT..............
             Program                                           [-11,000]
             decrease_classified
             program...................
   130   COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE              237,348         237,348
          OPERATIONS...................
  130A   AIRBORNE WARNING AND CONTROL                            34,600
          SYSTEM.......................
             Retain current AWACS fleet                         [34,600]
  130B   A-10 FLYING HOURS.............                         188,400
             Retain current A-10 fleet.                        [188,400]
   130C  A-10 WEAPONS SYSTEMS                                    68,100
          SUSTAINMENT..................
             Retain current A-10 fleet.                         [68,100]
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.      20,965,005      21,184,333
 
         MOBILIZATION
   140   AIRLIFT OPERATIONS............       1,968,810       1,968,810
   150   MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS.....         139,743         125,670
             Inflation pricing                                 [-14,073]
             requested as program
             growth....................
   160   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............       1,534,560       1,534,560
   170   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                173,627         173,627
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
   180   BASE SUPPORT..................         688,801         688,801
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....       4,505,541       4,491,468
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   190   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........          82,396          82,396
   200   RECRUIT TRAINING..............          19,852          19,852
   210   RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING               76,134          76,134
          CORPS (ROTC).................
   220   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                212,226         212,226
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
   230   BASE SUPPORT..................         759,809         759,809
   240   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....         356,157         356,157
   250   FLIGHT TRAINING...............         697,594         697,594
   260   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT               219,441         219,441
          EDUCATION....................
   270   TRAINING SUPPORT..............          91,001          91,001
   280   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............         316,688         316,688
   290   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....          73,920          73,920
   300   EXAMINING.....................           3,121           3,121
   310   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                 181,718         181,718
          EDUCATION....................
   320   CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND                 147,667         147,667
          TRAINING.....................
   330   JUNIOR ROTC...................          63,250          63,250
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND            3,300,974       3,300,974
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   340   LOGISTICS OPERATIONS..........       1,003,513         997,379
             Inflation pricing                                  [-6,134]
             requested as program
             growth....................
   350   TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES..         843,449         836,210
             Defense Finance and                                [-7,239]
             Accounting Services rate
             adjustment requested as
             program growth............
   360   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............          78,126          78,126
   370   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                247,677         247,677
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
   380   BASE SUPPORT..................       1,103,442       1,103,442
   390   ADMINISTRATION................         597,234         597,234
   400   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....         506,840         506,840
   410   OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES..         892,256         892,256
   420   CIVIL AIR PATROL..............          24,981          24,981
   450   INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT.........          92,419          92,419
  450A   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........       1,169,736       1,164,376
             Classified adjustment.....                         [-5,360]
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD           6,559,673       6,540,940
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   460   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                        -131,900
             Civilian personnel                                [-80,000]
             underexecution............
             Foreign Currency                                  [-51,900]
             adjustments...............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                        -131,900
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              35,331,193      35,385,815
              MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE...
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES.........       1,719,467       1,719,467
   020   MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS....         211,132         211,132
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............         530,301         530,301
   040   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                 85,672          90,672
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Facilities Sustainment....                          [5,000]
   050   BASE SUPPORT..................         367,966         367,966
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       2,914,538       2,919,538
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE
          ACTIVITIES
   060   ADMINISTRATION................          59,899          59,899
   070   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....          14,509          14,509
   080   MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERS              20,345          20,345
          MGMT (ARPC)..................
   090   OTHER PERS SUPPORT (DISABILITY           6,551           6,551
          COMP)........................
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION            101,304         101,304
             AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               3,015,842       3,020,842
              MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE..
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS...........       3,367,729       3,367,729
   020   MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS....         718,295         718,295
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............       1,528,695       1,528,695
   040   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                137,604         142,604
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Facilities Sustainment....                          [5,000]
   050   BASE SUPPORT..................         581,536         581,536
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       6,333,859       6,338,859
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-
          WIDE ACTIVITIES
   060   ADMINISTRATION................          27,812          27,812
   070   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....          31,188          31,188
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION             59,000          59,000
             AND SERVICE-WIDE
             ACTIVITIES................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               6,392,859       6,397,859
              MAINTENANCE, ANG.........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
          DEFENSE-WIDE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF.........         462,107         462,107
   020   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/          4,762,245       4,770,947
          OPERATING FORCES.............
             MSV_USSOCOM Maritime                              [-20,298]
             Support Vessel............
             NCR_USSOCOM National                               [-5,000]
             Capitol Region Office.....
             POTFF_transfer to DHP.....                        [-14,800]
             POTFF_transfer to DHRA for                         [-4,000]
             Office Suicide Provention.
             RSCC_Regional Special                              [-3,600]
             Operations Forces
             Coordination Centers......
             UFR Flying Hours..........                         [36,400]
             UFR Unit Readiness                                 [20,000]
             Training..................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       5,224,352       5,233,054
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   030   DEFENSE ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY         135,437         135,437
   040   NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY...          80,082          80,082
   050   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/            371,620         371,620
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING......
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND              587,139         587,139
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE
          ACTIVITIES
   060   CIVIL MILITARY PROGRAMS.......         119,888         175,888
             STARBASE..................                         [25,000]
             Youth Challenge...........                         [31,000]
   080   DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY.         556,493         556,493
   090   DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT          1,340,374       1,299,874
          AGENCY.......................
             Civilian personnel                                [-20,500]
             compensation_justification
             does not match summary of
             price and program changes.
             Civilian personnel                                [-20,000]
             compensation hiring lag...
   100   DEFENSE HUMAN RESOURCES                633,300         636,070
          ACTIVITY.....................
             Civilian personnel                                 [-1,230]
             compensation hiring lag...
             Suicide                                             [4,000]
             Prevention_transfer from
             SOCOM.....................
   110   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS          1,263,678       1,263,678
          AGENCY.......................
   130   DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY.          26,710          26,710
   140   DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY......         381,470         394,170
             PTAP funding increase.....                         [12,700]
   150   DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY........         194,520         194,520
   160   DEFENSE POW/MIA OFFICE........          21,485          21,485
   170   DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION           544,786         552,386
          AGENCY.......................
             Program                                            [-2,400]
             decrease_Combatting
             terrorism fellowship......
             Warsaw Initiative Fund/                            [10,000]
             Partnership For Peace.....
   180   DEFENSE SECURITY SERVICE......         527,812         527,812
   200   DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY SECURITY             32,787          32,787
          ADMINISTRATION...............
   230   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                2,566,424       2,566,424
          EDUCATION ACTIVITY...........
   240   MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY........         416,644         416,644
   260   OFFICE OF ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT.         186,987         106,391
             Office of Economic                                [-80,596]
             Adjustment................
   265   OFFICE OF NET ASSESSMENT......                          18,944
             Program increase..........                         [10,000]
             Transfer from line 270....                          [8,944]
   270   OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF           1,891,163       1,873,419
          DEFENSE......................
             BRAC 2015 Round Planning                           [-4,800]
             and Analyses..............
             DOD Rewards Program                                [-4,000]
             Underexecution............
             Transfer funding for                               [-8,944]
             Office of Net Assessment
             to line 265...............
   280   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/             87,915          87,915
          ADMIN & SVC-WIDE ACTIVITIES..
   290   WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS                610,982         608,462
          SERVICES.....................
             Civilian personnel                                 [-2,520]
             compensation hiring lag...
  290A   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........      13,983,323      13,983,323
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION         25,386,741      25,343,395
             AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   300   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                          12,500
             Foreign Currency                                  [-17,500]
             adjustments...............
             Impact Aid................                         [25,000]
             Impact Aid for Childern                             [5,000]
             with Severe Disabilities..
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                          12,500
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              31,198,232      31,176,088
              MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
 
         MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
         MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
   010   US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE             13,723          13,723
          ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE........
   020   OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN,                 100,000         100,000
          DISASTER AND CIVIC AID.......
   030   COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION..         365,108         365,108
   040   ACQ WORKFORCE DEV FD..........         212,875          83,034
             Program decrease..........                       [-129,841]
   050   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,             201,560         201,560
          ARMY.........................
   060   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,             277,294         277,294
          NAVY.........................
   070   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR         408,716         408,716
          FORCE........................
   080   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,               8,547           8,547
          DEFENSE......................
   090   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION              208,353         208,353
          FORMERLY USED SITES..........
   100   OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY                     5,000               0
          OPERATIONS TRANSFER FUND.....
             Program decrease..........                         [-5,000]
   110   SUPPORT OF INTERNATIONAL                10,000           5,700
          SPORTING COMPETITIONS,
          DEFENSE......................
             Unjustified program                                [-4,300]
             increase..................
             SUBTOTAL MISCELLANEOUS           1,811,176       1,672,035
             APPROPRIATIONS............
 
              TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS             1,811,176       1,672,035
              APPROPRIATIONS...........
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &             165,721,818     165,417,280
              MAINTENANCE..............
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY 
OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
                        (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2015        Agreement
  Line                 Item                   Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS.................          77,419        187,419
             ERI: Armored Brigade Combat                       [110,000]
             Team Presence..............
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.......           3,827          3,827
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE.........          22,353         22,353
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS...........       1,405,102      1,405,102
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.         452,332        467,332
             ERI: Increased Global                              [15,000]
             Response Force Exercises...
   060   AVIATION ASSETS................          47,522         47,522
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS            1,050,683      1,147,183
          SUPPORT.......................
             ERI: Increase Range                                [96,500]
             Capacities and Operation,
             and Upgrade Training Sites.
   080   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS..         166,725        166,725
   090   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE..          87,636        273,236
             Restore Critical Depot                            [185,600]
             Maintenance................
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT........         291,977        291,977
   140   ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES..........       7,316,967      7,407,261
             ERI: NATO Exercises........                        [13,100]
             ERI: Strengthen the                                 [3,000]
             Capacity of NATO and NATO
             Partners...................
             Replenishment of source                            [74,194]
             funds in FY15-02
             reprogramming..............
   150   COMMANDERS EMERGENCY RESPONSE            10,000         10,000
          PROGRAM.......................
   160   RESET..........................       2,861,655      2,861,655
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..      13,794,198     14,291,592
 
         MOBILIZATION
   190   ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS......                         59,000
             ERI: Armored Brigade Combat                        [40,000]
             Team presence..............
             ERI: Army Prepo                                    [19,000]
             Infrastructure Projects....
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION......                         59,000
 
         ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   350   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION.....       1,806,267      1,806,267
   380   AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT..........          45,537         45,537
   400   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS.....          32,264         32,264
   420   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT........          98,171         98,171
   430   OTHER SERVICE SUPPORT..........          99,694         99,694
   450   REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT.........         137,053        137,053
  520A   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............       1,122,092      1,106,192
             Program decrease...........                       [-15,900]
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE          3,341,078      3,325,178
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               17,135,276     17,675,770
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY.........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE.........           4,285          4,285
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.           1,428          1,428
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS                  699            699
          SUPPORT.......................
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT........          35,120         35,120
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          41,532         41,532
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   41,532         41,532
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES.....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS.................          12,593         13,793
             ERI: Leverage State                                 [1,200]
             Partnership Program........
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.......             647            647
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE.........           6,670          6,670
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS...........             664            664
   060   AVIATION ASSETS................          22,485         22,485
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS               14,560         14,560
          SUPPORT.......................
   090   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE..                         49,600
             Restore Critical Depot                             [49,600]
             Maintenance................
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT........          13,923         13,923
   120   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL                4,601          4,601
          HEADQUARTERS..................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          76,143        126,943
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   150   ADMINISTRATION.................             318            318
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD                  318            318
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   76,461        127,261
              MAINTENANCE, ARNG.........
 
         AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES
          FUND
         MINISTRY OF DEFENSE
   010   AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES           2,915,747      2,915,747
          FUND..........................
             SUBTOTAL MINISTRY OF              2,915,747      2,915,747
             DEFENSE....................
 
         MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
   020   MINISTRY OF INTERIOR...........       1,161,733      1,161,733
             SUBTOTAL MINISTRY OF              1,161,733      1,161,733
             INTERIOR...................
 
         DETAINEE OPS
   030   IRAQ TRAINING FACILITY.........          31,853         31,853
             SUBTOTAL DETAINEE OPS......          31,853         31,853
 
              TOTAL AFGHANISTAN SECURITY       4,109,333      4,109,333
              FORCES FUND...............
 
         IRAQ TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND
         IRAQ TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND
   010   IRAQ TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND......       1,618,000      1,618,000
             SUBTOTAL IRAQ TRAIN AND           1,618,000      1,618,000
             EQUIP FUND.................
 
              TOTAL IRAQ TRAIN AND EQUIP       1,618,000      1,618,000
              FUND......................
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT                573,123        576,123
          OPERATIONS....................
             ERI: Seabreeze and European                         [3,000]
             Multinational Exercises....
   040   AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY                 2,600          2,600
          SUPPORT.......................
   050   AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT............          22,035         22,035
   060   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE.....         192,411        303,411
             Aviation Depot Maintenance.                       [111,000]
   070   AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS                 1,116          1,116
          SUPPORT.......................
   080   AVIATION LOGISTICS.............          33,900         33,900
   090   MISSION AND OTHER SHIP                1,153,500      1,158,450
          OPERATIONS....................
             ERI: Black Sea                                      [4,950]
             Multinational Exercises....
   100   SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT &                20,068         20,068
          TRAINING......................
   110   SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE.........       1,922,829      2,072,829
             Restore Critical Depot                            [150,000]
             Maintenance................
   130   COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS..........          31,303         31,303
   160   WARFARE TACTICS................          26,229         26,229
   170   OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND              20,398         20,398
          OCEANOGRAPHY..................
   180   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES..........         676,555        685,675
             ERI: BALTOPS Multinational                            [500]
             Exercises..................
             ERI: Black Sea Information                            [620]
             Sharing Initiatives........
             ERI: EUCOM Information                              [8,000]
             Sharing Initiatives........
   190   EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE..........          10,662         10,662
   250   IN-SERVICE WEAPONS SYSTEMS               90,684         90,684
          SUPPORT.......................
   260   WEAPONS MAINTENANCE............         233,696        233,696
   300   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND             16,220         16,420
          MODERNIZATION.................
             ERI: European Multinational                           [200]
             Exercise Infrastructure
             Support....................
   310   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT.........          88,688         88,688
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       5,116,017      5,394,287
 
         MOBILIZATION
   360   EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES             5,307          5,307
          SYSTEMS.......................
   380   COAST GUARD SUPPORT............         213,319        213,319
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION......         218,626        218,626
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   420   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING.....          48,270         48,270
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND                48,270         48,270
             RECRUITING.................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   500   ADMINISTRATION.................           2,464          2,464
   510   EXTERNAL RELATIONS.............             520            520
   530   MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL           5,205          5,205
          MANAGEMENT....................
   540   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT........           1,439          1,439
   570   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION.....         186,318        186,318
   590   PLANNING, ENGINEERING AND                 1,350          1,350
          DESIGN........................
   600   ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM                  11,811         11,811
          MANAGEMENT....................
   640   NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE....           1,468          1,468
  720A   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............           6,380          6,380
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              216,955        216,955
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                5,599,868      5,878,138
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY.........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE
          CORPS
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATIONAL FORCES.............         477,406        490,616
             ERI: BALTOPS Multinational                          [1,500]
             Exercises..................
             ERI: Black Sea Rotational                           [8,910]
             Force Increased Presence...
             ERI: Cold Response                                    [800]
             Multinational Exercises....
             ERI: NATO Multinational                             [2,000]
             Exercises..................
   020   FIELD LOGISTICS................         353,334        353,334
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE..............         426,720        436,720
             Restore Critical Depot                             [10,000]
             Maintenance................
   060   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT.........          12,036         12,036
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       1,269,496      1,292,706
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   110   TRAINING SUPPORT...............          52,106         52,106
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND                52,106         52,106
             RECRUITING.................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   150   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION.....         162,980        162,980
   160   ADMINISTRATION.................           1,322          1,322
  180A   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............           1,870          1,870
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              166,172        166,172
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                1,487,774      1,510,984
              MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS.
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT                 16,133         16,133
          OPERATIONS....................
   040   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE.....           6,150          6,150
   070   MISSION AND OTHER SHIP                   12,475         12,475
          OPERATIONS....................
   090   SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE.........           2,700          2,700
   110   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES..........           8,418          8,418
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          45,876         45,876
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   45,876         45,876
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES.....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATING FORCES...............           9,740          9,740
   040   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT.........             800            800
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          10,540         10,540
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   10,540         10,540
              MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE...
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR
          FORCE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES..........       1,352,604      1,419,934
             ERI: Baltic Air Policing...                        [10,000]
             ERI: Eastern European                               [2,300]
             Countries Exercise Support.
             ERI: Retain Air Superiority                        [55,000]
             Presence...................
             Replenishment of source                                [30]
             funds in FY15-02
             reprogramming..............
   020   COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES......         893,939        898,339
             ERI: Baltic Intelligence,                           [4,400]
             Surveillance and
             Reconnaissance.............
   030   AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT,             8,785          8,785
          MAINTAIN SKILLS)..............
   040   DEPOT MAINTENANCE..............       1,146,099      1,146,099
   050   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                  78,000        105,890
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION...
             ERI: Improve Airfield                               [9,890]
             Infrastructure.............
             ERI: Improve Support                                  [400]
             Infrastructure.............
             ERI: Improve Weapons                               [17,600]
             Storage Facilities.........
   060   BASE SUPPORT...................       1,226,834      1,226,834
   070   GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING...          92,109         92,109
   080   OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS..         168,269        168,269
   090   TACTICAL INTEL AND OTHER                 26,337         26,337
          SPECIAL ACTIVITIES............
   100   LAUNCH FACILITIES..............             852            852
   110   SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS..........           4,942          4,942
   120   COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT              99,400         99,568
          MISSION SUPPORT...............
             Replenishment of source                               [168]
             funds in FY15-02
             reprogramming..............
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       5,098,170      5,197,958
 
         MOBILIZATION
   140   AIRLIFT OPERATIONS.............       2,894,280      2,896,880
             ERI: Persistent MAF                                 [2,000]
             Capability.................
             Replenishment of source                               [600]
             funds in FY15-02
             reprogramming..............
   150   MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS......         138,043        138,043
   160   DEPOT MAINTENANCE..............         437,279        597,279
             Restore Critical Depot                            [160,000]
             Maintenance................
   170   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                   2,801          2,801
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION...
   180   BASE SUPPORT...................          15,370         15,370
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION......       3,487,773      3,650,373
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   190   OFFICER ACQUISITION............              39             39
   200   RECRUIT TRAINING...............             432            432
   230   BASE SUPPORT...................           1,617          1,617
   240   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING.....           2,145          2,145
   310   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                      163            163
          EDUCATION.....................
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND                 4,396          4,396
             RECRUITING.................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   340   LOGISTICS OPERATIONS...........          85,016         85,016
   350   TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES...             934            934
   380   BASE SUPPORT...................           6,923          6,923
   390   ADMINISTRATION.................             151            151
   400   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS.....         162,106        164,356
             Replenishment of source                             [2,250]
             funds in FY15-02
             reprogramming..............
   410   OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES...         246,256        246,256
   450   INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT..........              60             60
  450A   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............          17,408          5,910
             Program decrease...........                       [-11,498]
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              518,854        509,606
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                9,109,193      9,362,333
              MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE..............          72,575         72,575
   050   BASE SUPPORT...................           5,219          5,219
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          77,794         77,794
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   77,794         77,794
              MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE...
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS............                          2,300
             ERI: Eastern European                               [2,000]
             Countries Exercise Support.
             ERI: Leverage State                                   [300]
             Partnership Program........
   020   MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS.....          20,300         20,300
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          20,300         22,600
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   20,300         22,600
              MAINTENANCE, ANG..........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
          DEFENSE-WIDE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF..........                            100
             ERI: EUCOM Support to NATO                            [100]
             Exercises in Chairman's
             Joint Exercise Program.....
   020   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/           2,490,648      2,648,963
          OPERATING FORCES..............
             ERI: Increased Partnership                         [10,557]
             Activities in Central and
             Eastern Europe.............
             Replenishment of source                           [147,758]
             funds in FY15-02
             reprogramming..............
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       2,490,648      2,649,063
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE
          ACTIVITIES
   080   DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY..          22,847         22,847
   090   DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT              21,516         21,516
          AGENCY........................
   110   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS              36,416         36,416
          AGENCY........................
   130   DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY..         105,000        105,000
   150   DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY.........           6,251          6,251
   170   DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION          1,660,000      1,660,000
          AGENCY........................
   230   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION          93,000         93,000
          ACTIVITY......................
   270   OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF              115,664        125,664
          DEFENSE.......................
             ERI: Intelligence and                              [10,000]
             Warning....................
   290   WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS                   2,424          2,424
          SERVICES......................
  290A   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............       1,617,659      1,613,059
             Program decrease...........                        [-4,600]
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND       3,680,777      3,686,177
             SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES.....
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                6,171,425      6,335,240
              MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE.
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               45,503,372     46,815,401
              MAINTENANCE...............
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
         SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2015         Agreement
                 Item                       Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Military Personnel Appropriations.....     128,957,593      128,479,608
   AGR Pay and Allowance_projected                             [-84,500]
   underexecution.....................
  CVN 73 Refueling and Complex                                  [48,000]
   Overhaul (RCOH)....................
   Inactive Duty Training_projected                            [-79,000]
   underexecution.....................
   Individual Clothing and Uniform                             [-10,000]
   Allowance_excess to requirement....
   Lower than budgeted average                                 [-66,500]
   strength levels....................
   Military Personnel Historical                              [-628,000]
   Underexecution.....................
   Non-Prior Service Enlistment                                 [-4,000]
   Bonus_excess to requirement........
   Operational training excess to                               [-3,000]
   requirement........................
   Operational travel excess to                                [-10,800]
   requirement........................
   Recalculation from CPI-1 to CPI....                         [215,300]
   Retain current A-10 fleet..........                          [74,615]
   Retain current AWACS fleet.........                          [24,900]
   Transfer funding for 2 CTC                                   [45,000]
   rotations: Army-requested from line
   121, O&M Army......................
 
Medicare-Eligible Retiree Health Fund        6,236,092        6,236,092
 Contributions........................
 
  Total, Military Personnel...........     135,193,685      134,715,700
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                          Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2015         Agreement
                 Item                       Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Military Personnel Appropriations.....       5,536,340        5,537,840
   ERI: Strengthen the Capacity of                               [1,500]
   NATO and NATO Partners.............
 
Medicare-Eligible Retiree Health Fund           58,728           58,728
 Contributions........................
 
  Total, Military Personnel                  5,595,068        5,596,568
   Appropriations.....................
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                    TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
        SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2015         Agreement
             Program Title                  Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
PREPOSITIONED WAR RESERVE STOCKS......          13,727           13,727
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY...          13,727           13,727
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS (MEDICAL/                61,717           61,717
 DENTAL)..............................
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR              61,717           61,717
   FORCE..............................
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-WIDE
DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY (DLA)........          44,293           44,293
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-         44,293           44,293
   WIDE...............................
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA............       1,114,731        1,214,731
     Restore Commissary Reduction.....                         [100,000]
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA...       1,114,731        1,214,731
 
CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE...............         222,728          222,728
RDT&E.................................         595,913          595,913
PROCUREMENT...........................          10,227           10,227
   TOTAL CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS               828,868          828,868
   DESTRUCTION........................
 
DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
 ACTIVITIES, DEF
DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG             719,096          719,096
 ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE..................
DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM.........         101,591          101,591
   TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG          820,687          820,687
   ACTIVITIES, DEF....................
 
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.............         310,830          310,830
PROCUREMENT...........................           1,000            1,000
   TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR               311,830          311,830
   GENERAL............................
 
DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
IN-HOUSE CARE.........................       8,799,086        8,849,171
     Implementation of Benefit Reform                          [-56,715]
     Proposal.........................
     Restoration of MHS Modernization.                          [92,000]
     USSOCOM Behavioral Health and                              [14,800]
     Warrior Care Management Program..
PRIVATE SECTOR CARE...................      15,412,599       14,317,599
     Historical underexecution........                        [-855,000]
     Implementation of Benefit Reform                          [-58,000]
     Proposal.........................
     Pharmaceutical drugs_excess                              [-182,000]
     growth...........................
CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT...........       2,462,096        2,358,396
     Historical underexecution........                        [-100,000]
     Travel excess growth.............                          [-3,700]
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT................       1,557,347        1,557,347
MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES.................         366,223          366,223
EDUCATION AND TRAINING................         750,866          750,866
BASE OPERATIONS/COMMUNICATIONS........       1,683,694        1,683,694
R&D UNDISTRIBUTED
R&D RESEARCH..........................          10,317           10,317
R&D EXPLORATRY DEVELOPMENT............          49,015           49,015
R&D ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT..............         226,410          226,410
R&D DEMONSTRATION/VALIDATION..........          97,787           97,787
R&D ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT...........         217,898          217,898
R&D MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT............          38,075           38,075
R&D CAPABILITIES ENHANCEMENT..........          15,092           15,092
UNDISTRIBUTED
PROC INITIAL OUTFITTING...............          13,057           13,057
PROC REPLACEMENT & MODERNIZATION......         283,030          283,030
PROC THEATER MEDICAL INFORMATION                 3,145            3,145
 PROGRAM..............................
PROC IEHR.............................           9,181            9,181
UNDISTRIBUTED.........................        -161,857         -161,857
   TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.......      31,833,061       30,684,446
 
   TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.........      35,028,914       33,980,299
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                          Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2015         Agreement
             Program Title                  Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
C-17 CLS ENGINE COST INCREASE
FUEL..................................           5,000            5,000
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR               5,000            5,000
   FORCE..............................
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-WIDE
DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY (DLA)........          86,350           86,350
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-         86,350           86,350
   WIDE...............................
 
DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
 ACTIVITIES, DEF
DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG             189,000          209,000
 ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE..................
     SOUTHCOM ISR.....................                          [20,000]
   TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG          189,000          209,000
   ACTIVITIES, DEF....................
 
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.............           7,968            7,968
   TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR                 7,968            7,968
   GENERAL............................
 
DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
IN-HOUSE CARE.........................          65,902           65,902
PRIVATE SECTOR CARE...................         214,259          214,259
CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT...........          15,311           15,311
EDUCATION AND TRAINING................           5,059            5,059
   TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.......         300,531          300,531
 
EUROPEAN REASSURANCE INITIATIVE
EUROPEAN REASSURANCE INITIATIVE.......         925,000          370,713
     ERI: Military Assistance and                               [75,000]
     Support for Ukraine..............
     ERI: Transfer out to                                     [-629,287]
     appropriations for proper
     execution........................
   TOTAL EUROPEAN REASSURANCE                  925,000          370,713
   INITIATIVE.........................
 
COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS FUND
COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS FUND....       4,000,000        1,300,000
     Funding ahead of need............                      [-2,700,000]
   TOTAL COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS       4,000,000        1,300,000
   FUND...............................
 
   TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.........       5,513,849        2,279,562
 
   TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.........       5,513,849        2,279,562
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                   TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 State/Country and                                     FY 2015       Agreement
          Account                  Installation               Project Title            Request      Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             California
Army                           Concord                 Access Control Point.......         9,900          9,900
Army                           Concord                 General Purpose Maintenance         5,300          5,300
                                                        Shop.
Army                           Fort Irwin              Unmanned Aerial Vehicle            45,000         45,000
                                                        Hangar.
                             Colorado
Army                           Fort Carson             Aircraft Maintenance Hangar        60,000         60,000
Army                           Fort Carson             Unmanned Aerial Vehicle            29,000         29,000
                                                        Hangar.
                             Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
Army                           Guantanamo Bay          Dining Facility............        12,000         12,000
Army                           Guantanamo Bay          Health Clinic..............        11,800         11,800
Army                           Guantanamo Bay          High Value Detainee Complex             0              0
                             Hawaii
Army                           Fort Shafter            Command and Control                96,000         85,000
                                                        Facility Complex.
                             Japan
Army                           Kadena AB               Missile Magazine...........        10,600         10,600
                             Kentucky
Army                           Blue Grass Army Depot   Shipping and Receiving                  0         15,000
                                                        Building.
Army                           Fort Campbell           Unmanned Aerial Vehicle            23,000         23,000
                                                        Hangar.
                             New York
Army                           Fort Drum               Unmanned Aerial Vehicle            27,000         27,000
                                                        Hangar.
Army                           U.S. Military Academy   Cadet Barracks, Incr 3.....        58,000         58,000
                             Pennsylvania
Army                           Letterkenny Army Depot  Rebuild Shop...............        16,000         16,000
                             South Carolina
Army                           Fort Jackson            Trainee Barracks Complex 3,        52,000         52,000
                                                        Ph1.
                             Texas
Army                           Fort Hood               Simulations Center.........             0              0
                             Virginia
Army                           Fort Lee                Adv. Individual Training                0              0
                                                        Barracks Complex, Phase 3.
Army                           Joint Base Langley-     Tactical Vehicle Hardstand.         7,700          7,700
                                Eustis
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Host Nation Support FY15...        33,000         33,000
                                Locations
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Minor Construction FY15....        25,000         25,000
                                Locations
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design FY15...        18,127         18,127
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Army Total                                                  539,427        543,427
                             Arizona
Navy                           Yuma                    Aviation Maintenance and           16,608         16,608
                                                        Support Complex.
                             Bahrain Island
Navy                           SW Asia                 P-8A Hangar................        27,826         27,826
                             California
Navy                           Bridgeport              E-LMR Communications Towers        16,180         16,180
Navy                           Lemoore                 F-35C Facility Addition and             0         16,594
                                                        Modification.
Navy                           Lemoore                 F-35C Operational Training              0         22,391
                                                        Facility.
Navy                           San Diego               Steam Distribution System          47,110         47,110
                                                        Decentralization.
                             District of Columbia
Navy                           District of Columbia    Electronics Science and            31,735         31,735
                                                        Technology Laboratory.
                             Djibouti
Navy                           Camp Lemonier           Entry Control Point........         9,923          9,923
                             Florida
Navy                           Jacksonville            MH60 Parking Apron.........         8,583          8,583
Navy                           Jacksonville            P-8A Runway Thresholds and         21,652         21,652
                                                        Taxiways.
Navy                           Mayport                 LCS Operational Training           20,520         20,520
                                                        Facility.
                             Guam
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   GSE Shops at North Ramp....        21,880         21,880
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   MWSS Facilities at North           28,771         28,771
                                                        Ramp.
                             Hawaii
Navy                           Kaneohe Bay             Facility Modifications for         51,182         51,182
                                                        VMU, MWSD, & CH53E.
Navy                           Kaneohe Bay             Road and Infrastructure             2,200          2,200
                                                        Improvements.
Navy                           Pearl Harbor            Submarine Maneuvering Room          9,698          9,698
                                                        Trainer Facility.
                             Japan
Navy                           Iwakuni                 Security Mods DPRI MC167-T          6,415          6,415
                                                        (CVW-5 E2D EA-18G).
Navy                           Kadena AB               Aircraft Maint Hangar              19,411         19,411
                                                        Alterations and SAP-F.
Navy                           MCAS Futenma            Hangar & Rinse Facility             4,639          4,639
                                                        Modernizations.
Navy                           Okinawa                 LHD Practice Site                  35,685         35,685
                                                        Improvements.
                             Maryland
Navy                           Annapolis               Center for Cyber Security         120,112         30,000
                                                        Studies Building.
Navy                           Indian Head             Advanced Energetics                15,346         15,346
                                                        Research Lab Complex Ph 2.
Navy                           Patuxent River          Atlantic Test Range                 9,860          9,860
                                                        Facility.
                             Nevada
Navy                           Fallon                  Air Wing Training Facility.        27,763         27,763
Navy                           Fallon                  Facility Alteration for F-          3,499          3,499
                                                        35 Training Mission.
                             North Carolina
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            2nd Radio BN Complex Phase              0         50,706
                                                        1.
Navy                           Cherry Point Marine     Water Treatment Plant              41,588         41,588
                                Corps Air Station       Replacement.
                             Pennsylvania
Navy                           Philadelphia            Ohio Replacement Power &           23,985         23,985
                                                        Propulsion Facility.
                             South Carolina
Navy                           Charleston              Nuclear Power Operational          35,716         35,716
                                                        Support Facility.
                             Spain
Navy                           Rota                    Ship Berthing Power                20,233         20,233
                                                        Upgrades.
                             Virginia
Navy                           Dahlgren                Missile Support Facility...        27,313         27,313
Navy                           Norfolk                 EOD Consolidated Ops &             39,274         39,274
                                                        Logistics Facilities.
Navy                           Portsmouth              Submarine Maintenance               9,743          9,743
                                                        Facility.
Navy                           Quantico                Ammunition Supply Point            12,613         12,613
                                                        Expansion.
Navy                           Yorktown                Bachelor Enlisted Quarters.        19,152         19,152
Navy                           Yorktown                Fast Company Training               7,836          7,836
                                                        Facility.
                             Washington
Navy                           Bangor                  Regional Ship Maintenance               0         13,833
                                                        Support Facility.
Navy                           Bremerton               Integrated Water Treatment         16,401         16,401
                                                        Syst. Dd 1, 2, & 5.
Navy                           Kitsap                  Explosives Handling Wharf          83,778         83,778
                                                        #2 (Inc).
Navy                           Port Angeles            TPS Port Angeles Forward           20,638         20,638
                                                        Operating Location.
Navy                           Whidbey Island          P-8A Aircraft Apron and            24,390         24,390
                                                        Supporting Facilities.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   F-35C Facility Addition and        16,594              0
                                Locations               Modification.
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   F-35C Operational Training         22,391              0
                                Locations               Facility.
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   MCON Design Funds..........        33,366         33,366
                                Locations
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   7,163          7,163
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Navy Total                                                1,018,772        993,199
                             Alaska
AF                             Clear AFS               Emergency Power Plant Fuel         11,500         11,500
                                                        Storage.
                             Arizona
AF                             Luke AFB                F-35 Aircraft Mx                   11,200         11,200
                                                        Hangar_Sqdn #2.
AF                             Luke AFB                F-35 Flightline Fillstands.        15,600         15,600
                             Guam
AF                             Joint Region Marianas   Guam Strike Fuel Systems           64,000         64,000
                                                        Maint. Hangar Inc 2.
AF                             Joint Region Marianas   PAR Low Observable/                     0         34,400
                                                        Corrosion Control/
                                                        Composite Repair Shop.
AF                             Joint Region Marianas   PRTC_Combat Comm Infrastr           3,750          3,750
                                                        Facility.
AF                             Joint Region Marianas   PRTC_Red Horse Logistics            3,150          3,150
                                                        Facility.
AF                             Joint Region Marianas   PRTC_Satellite Fire Station         6,500          6,500
                             Kansas
AF                             McConnell AFB           KC-46A Adal Mobility Bag            2,300          2,300
                                                        Strg Expansion.
AF                             McConnell AFB           KC-46A Adal Regional Mx Tng        16,100         16,100
                                                        Facility.
AF                             McConnell AFB           KC-46A Alter Composite Mx           4,100          4,100
                                                        Shop.
AF                             McConnell AFB           KC-46A Alter Taxiway                5,500          5,500
                                                        Foxtrot.
AF                             McConnell AFB           KC-46A Fuselage Trainer....         6,400          6,400
                             Maryland
AF                             Fort Meade              Cybercom Joint Operations         166,000        166,000
                                                        Center, Increment 2.
                             Massachusetts
AF                             Hanscom AFB             Dormitory (72 Rm)..........        13,500         13,500
                             Nebraska
AF                             Offutt AFB              Usstratcom Replacement            180,000        180,000
                                                        Facility- Incr 4.
                             Nevada
AF                             Nellis AFB              F-22 Flight Simulator              14,000         14,000
                                                        Facility.
AF                             Nellis AFB              F-35 Aircraft Mx Unit_4 Bay        31,000         31,000
                                                        Hangar.
AF                             Nellis AFB              F-35 Weapons School                 8,900          8,900
                                                        Facility.
                             New Jersey
AF                             Joint Base McGuire-Dix- Fire Station...............         5,900          5,900
                                Lakehurst
                             Oklahoma
AF                             Tinker AFB              KC-46A Depot Maint Complex         48,000         48,000
                                                        Spt Infrastr.
AF                             Tinker AFB              KC-46A Two-Bay Depot Mx            63,000         63,000
                                                        Hangar.
                             Texas
AF                             Joint Base San Antonio  Fire Station...............         5,800          5,800
                             United Kingdom
AF                             RAF Croughton           JIAC Consolidation_Phase 1.        92,223         92,223
                             Worldwide Unspecified
AF                             Various Worldwide       Planning and Design........        10,738         10,738
                                Locations
AF                             Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor Military         22,613         22,613
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Air Force Total                                             811,774        846,174
                             Arizona
Def-Wide                       Fort Huachuca           JITC Building 52120                 1,871          1,871
                                                        Renovation.
                             Australia
Def-Wide                       Geraldton               Combined Communications             9,600          9,600
                                                        Gateway Geraldton.
                             Belgium
Def-Wide                       Brussels                Brussells Elementary/High          41,626         41,626
                                                        School Replacement.
Def-Wide                       Brussels                NATO Headquarters Facility.        37,918         37,918
                             California
Def-Wide                       Camp Pendleton          SOF Comm/Elec Maintenance          11,841         11,841
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Coronado                SOF Logistics Support Unit         41,740         41,740
                                                        1 Ops Facility #1.
Def-Wide                       Coronado                SOF Support Activity Ops           28,600         28,600
                                                        Facility #2.
Def-Wide                       Lemoore                 Replace Fuel Storage &             52,500         52,500
                                                        Distribution Fac..
                             Colorado
Def-Wide                       Peterson AFB            Dental Clinic Replacement..        15,200         15,200
                             Conus
Def-Wide                       Various Locations       East Coast Missile Site                 0              0
                                                        Planning and Design.
                             Conus Classified
Def-Wide                       Classified Location     SOF Skills Training                53,073         53,073
                                                        Facility.
                             Georgia
Def-Wide                       Hunter Army Airfield    SOF Company Operations              7,692          7,692
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Robins AFB              Replace Hydrant Fuel System        19,900         19,900
                             Germany
Def-Wide                       Rhine Ordnance          Medical Center Replacement        259,695        189,695
                                Barracks                Incr 4.
                             Guantanamo Bay, Cuba
Def-Wide                       Guantanamo Bay          Replace Fuel Tank..........        11,100         11,100
Def-Wide                       Guantanamo Bay          W.T. Sampson E/M and HS            65,190         65,190
                                                        Consolid./Replacement.
                             Hawaii
Def-Wide                       Joint Base Pearl        Replace Fuel Tanks.........         3,000          3,000
                                Harbor-Hickam
Def-Wide                       Joint Base Pearl        Upgrade Fire Supression &          49,900         49,900
                                Harbor-Hickam           Ventilation Sys..
                             Japan
Def-Wide                       Misawa AB               Edgren High School                 37,775         37,775
                                                        Renovation.
Def-Wide                       Okinawa                 Killin Elementary                  71,481         71,481
                                                        Replacement/Renovation.
Def-Wide                       Okinawa                 Kubasaki High School               99,420         99,420
                                                        Replacement/Renovation.
Def-Wide                       Sasebo                  E.J. King High School              37,681         37,681
                                                        Replacement/Renovation.
                             Kentucky
Def-Wide                       Fort Campbell           SOF System Integration             18,000         18,000
                                                        Maintenance Office Fac.
                             Maryland
Def-Wide                       Fort Meade              NSAW Campus Feeders Phase 1        54,207         54,207
Def-Wide                       Fort Meade              NSAW Recapitalize Building         45,521         45,521
                                                        #1/Site M Inc 3.
Def-Wide                       Joint Base Andrews      Construct Hydrant Fuel             18,300         18,300
                                                        System.
                             Michigan
Def-Wide                       Selfridge ANGB          Replace Fuel Distribution          35,100         35,100
                                                        Facilities.
                             Mississippi
Def-Wide                       Stennis                 SOF Applied Instruction            10,323         10,323
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Stennis                 SOF Land Acquisition               17,224         17,224
                                                        Western Maneuver Area.
                             Nevada
Def-Wide                       Fallon                  SOF Tactical Ground Mob.           20,241         20,241
                                                        Vehicle Maint Fac..
                             New Mexico
Def-Wide                       Cannon AFB              SOF Squadron Operations            23,333         23,333
                                                        Facility (STS).
                             North Carolina
Def-Wide                       Camp Lejeune            Lejeune High School                41,306         41,306
                                                        Addition/Renovation.
Def-Wide                       Camp Lejeune            SOF Intel/Ops Expansion....        11,442         11,442
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF Battalion Operations           37,074         37,074
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF Tactical Equipment              8,000          8,000
                                                        Maintenance Facility.
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF Training Command               48,062         48,062
                                                        Building.
Def-Wide                       Seymour Johnson AFB     Replace Hydrant Fuel System         8,500          8,500
                             South Carolina
Def-Wide                       Beaufort                Replace Fuel Distibution           40,600         40,600
                                                        Facilities.
                             South Dakota
Def-Wide                       Ellsworth AFB           Construct Hydrant System...         8,000          8,000
                             Texas
Def-Wide                       Fort Bliss              Hospital Replacement Incr 6       131,500        131,500
Def-Wide                       Joint Base San Antonio  Medical Clinic Replacement.        38,300         38,300
                             Virginia
Def-Wide                       Craney Island           Replace & Alter Fuel               36,500         36,500
                                                        Distibution Facilities.
Def-Wide                       Def Distribution Depot  Replace Access Control              5,700          5,700
                                Richmond                Point.
Def-Wide                       Fort Belvoir            Parking Lot................         7,239          7,239
Def-Wide                       Joint Base Langley-     Hopsital Addition/Cup              41,200         41,200
                                Eustis                  Replacement.
Def-Wide                       Joint Expeditionary     SOF Human Performance              11,200         11,200
                                Base Little             Center.
                                Creek_Story
Def-Wide                       Joint Expeditionary     SOF Indoor Dynamic Range...        14,888         14,888
                                Base Little
                                Creek_Story
Def-Wide                       Joint Expeditionary     SOF Mobile Comm Det Support        13,500         13,500
                                Base Little             Facility.
                                Creek_Story
Def-Wide                       Pentagon                Redundant Chilled Water            15,100         15,100
                                                        Loop.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Contingency Construction...         9,000              0
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   ECIP Design................        10,000         10,000
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Energy Conservation               150,000        150,000
                                Locations               Investment Program.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Exercise Related Minor              8,581          8,581
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........           599            599
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        38,704         38,704
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        42,387         42,387
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........           745            745
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        24,425          4,425
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........         1,183          1,183
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   5,932          5,932
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  10,334         10,334
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   2,000          2,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   6,846          6,846
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   4,100          4,100
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   2,700          2,700
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor Milcon...         2,994          2,994
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Various Worldwide       Planning and Design........        24,197         24,197
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Defense-Wide Total                                        2,061,890      1,962,890
                             Kentucky
Chem Demil                     Blue Grass Army Depot   Ammunition Demilitarization        38,715         38,715
                                                        Ph XV.
                             ........................
      Chemical Demilitarization Construction, Defense Total                               38,715         38,715
                             Worldwide Unspecified
NATO                           NATO Security           NATO Security Investment          199,700        174,700
                                Investment Program      Program.
                             ........................
      NATO Security Investment Program Total                                             199,700        174,700
                             Delaware
Army NG                        Dagsboro                National Guard Vehicle                  0              0
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Maine
Army NG                        Augusta                 National Guard Reserve             30,000         32,000
                                                        Center.
                             Maryland
Army NG                        Havre de Grace          National Guard Readiness           12,400         12,400
                                                        Center.
                             Montana
Army NG                        Helena                  National Guard Readiness           38,000         38,000
                                                        Center Add/Alt.
                             New Mexico
Army NG                        Alamogordo              Readiness Center Add/Alt...             0          5,000
Army NG                        Alamogordo              National Guard Readiness                0              0
                                                        Center.
                             North Dakota
Army NG                        Valley City             National Guard Vehicle             10,800         10,800
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Vermont
Army NG                        North Hyde Park         National Guard Vehicle              4,400          4,400
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Washington
Army NG                        Yakima                  Enlisted Barracks,                      0              0
                                                        Transient Training.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army NG                        Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        17,600         17,600
                                Locations
Army NG                        Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  13,720         13,720
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Army National Guard Total                                   126,920        133,920
                             California
Army Res                       Fresno                  Army Reserve Center/AMSA...        22,000         22,000
Army Res                       March (Riverside)       Army Reserve Center........             0         25,000
                             Colorado
Army Res                       Fort Carson             Training Building Addition.         5,000          5,000
                             Illinois
Army Res                       Arlington Heights       Army Reserve Center........             0              0
                             Mississippi
Army Res                       Starkville              Army Reserve Center........             0              0
                             New Jersey
Army Res                       Joint Base McGuire-Dix- Army Reserve Center........        26,000         26,000
                                Lakehurst
                             New York
Army Res                       Mattydale               Army Reserve Center/AMSA...        23,000         23,000
                             Virginia
Army Res                       Fort Lee                Tass Training Center.......        16,000         16,000
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........         8,337          8,337
                                Locations
Army Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   3,609          3,609
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Army Reserve Total                                          103,946        128,946
                             Pennsylvania
N/MC Res                       Pittsburgh              Reserve Training                   17,650         17,650
                                                        Center_Pittsburgh, PA.
                             Washington
N/MC Res                       Everett                 Joint Reserve Intelligence              0         47,869
                                                        Center.
N/MC Res                       Whidbey Island          C-40 Aircraft Maintenance          27,755         27,755
                                                        Hangar.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
N/MC Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   MCNR Planning & Design.....         2,123          2,123
                                Locations
N/MC Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   MCNR Unspecified Minor              4,000          4,000
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Naval Reserve Total                                          51,528         99,397
                             Arkansas
Air NG                         Fort Smith Municipal    Consolidated SCIF..........             0         13,200
                                Airport
                             Connecticut
Air NG                         Bradley IAP             Construct C-130 Fuel Cell          16,306         16,306
                                                        and Corrosion Contr.
                             Iowa
Air NG                         Des Moines MAP          Remotely Piloted Aircraft           8,993          8,993
                                                        and Targeting Group.
                             Michigan
Air NG                         W. K. Kellog Regional   RPA Beddown................         6,000          6,000
                                Airport
                             New Hampshire
Air NG                         Pease International     KC-46A Adal Airfield                7,100          7,100
                                Trade Port              Pavements & Hydrant Syst.
Air NG                         Pease International     KC-46A Adal Fuel Cell              16,800         16,800
                                Trade Port              Building 253.
Air NG                         Pease International     KC-46A Adal Maint Hangar           18,002         18,002
                                Trade Port              Building 254.
                             Pennsylvania
Air NG                         Willow Grove ARF        RPA Operations Center......         5,662          5,662
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Air NG                         Various Worldwide       Planning and Design........         7,700          7,700
                                Locations
Air NG                         Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor                   8,100          6,100
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Air National Guard Total                                     94,663        105,863
                             Arizona
AF Res                         Davis-Monthan AFB       Guardian Angel Operations..             0         14,500
                             Georgia
AF Res                         Robins AFB              AFRC Consolidated Mission          27,700         27,700
                                                        Complex, Ph I.
                             North Carolina
AF Res                         Seymour Johnson AFB     KC-135 Tanker Parking Apron         9,800          9,800
                                                        Expansion.
                             Texas
AF Res                         Fort Worth              EOD Facility...............         3,700          3,700
                             Worldwide Unspecified
AF Res                         Various Worldwide       Planning and Design........         6,892          6,892
                                Locations
AF Res                         Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor Military          1,400          1,400
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Air Force Reserve Total                                      49,492         63,992
                             Illinois
FH Con Army                    Rock Island             Family Housing New                 19,500         19,500
                                                        Construction.
                             Korea
FH Con Army                    Camp Walker             Family Housing New                 57,800         57,800
                                                        Construction.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Con Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Family Housing P & D.......         1,309          1,309
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Construction, Army Total                                             78,609         78,609
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings................        14,136         14,136
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Leased Housing.............       112,504        112,504
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance of Real                65,245         65,245
                                Locations               Property Facilities.
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Management Account.........         3,117          3,117
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Management Account.........        43,480         43,480
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Military Housing                   20,000         20,000
                                Locations               Privitization Initiative.
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous..............           700            700
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Services...................         9,108          9,108
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities..................        82,686         82,686
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Army Total                               350,976        350,976
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings Account........        38,543         38,543
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privatization......        40,761         40,761
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        43,651         43,651
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance................        99,934         99,934
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Management Account.........        47,834         47,834
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous Account......         1,993          1,993
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Services Account...........        12,709         12,709
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities Account..........        42,322         42,322
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Air Force Total                          327,747        327,747
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Con Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Design.....................           472            472
                                Locations
FH Con Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Improvements...............        15,940         15,940
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Construction, Navy And Marine Corps Total                            16,412         16,412
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings Account........        17,881         17,881
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        65,999         65,999
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance of Real                97,612         97,612
                                Locations               Property.
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Management Account.........        55,124         55,124
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous Account......           366            366
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Privatization Support Costs        27,876         27,876
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Services Account...........        18,079         18,079
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities Account..........        71,092         71,092
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Navy And Marine Corps Total              354,029        354,029
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings Account........         3,362          3,362
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings Account........            20             20
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings Account........           746            746
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        42,083         42,083
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        11,179         11,179
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance of Real                   344            344
                                Locations               Property.
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance of Real                 2,128          2,128
                                Locations               Property.
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Management Account.........           378            378
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Services Account...........            31             31
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities Account..........           170            170
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities Account..........           659            659
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Defense-Wide Total                        61,100         61,100
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FHIF                           Unspecified Worldwide   Family Housing Improvement          1,662          1,662
                                Locations               Fund.
                             ........................
      DOD Family Housing Improvement Fund Total                                            1,662          1,662
                             Worldwide Unspecified
BRAC                           Base Realignment &      Base Realignment and               84,417         84,417
                                Closure, Army           Closure.
                             ........................
      Base Realignment and Closure_Army Total                                             84,417         84,417
                             Worldwide Unspecified
BRAC                           Base Realignment &      Base Realignment & Closure.        57,406         57,406
                                Closure, Navy
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-100: Planing, Design            7,682          7,682
                                Locations               and Management.
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-101: Various Locations.        21,416         21,416
                                Locations
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-138: NAS Brunswick, ME.           904            904
                                Locations
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-157: Mcsa Kansas City,             40             40
                                Locations               MO.
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-172: NWS Seal Beach,            6,066          6,066
                                Locations               Concord, CA.
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-84: JRB Willow Grove &          1,178          1,178
                                Locations               Cambria Reg Ap.
                             ........................
      Base Realignment and Closure_Navy Total                                             94,692         94,692
                             Worldwide Unspecified
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DoD BRAC Activities_Air            90,976         90,976
                                Locations               Force.
                             ........................
      Base Realignment and Closure_Air Force Total                                        90,976         90,976
                             Worldwide Unspecified
PYS                            Unspecified Worldwide   42 USC 3374................             0              0
                                Locations
PYS                            Unspecified Worldwide   Army.......................             0              0
                                Locations
PYS                            Unspecified Worldwide   NATO Security Investment                0              0
                                Locations               Program.
                             ........................
      Prior Year Savings Total                                                                 0              0
                             Worldwide Unspecified
GR                             Unspecified Worldwide   General Reductions.........             0              0
                                Locations
                             ........................
      General Reductions Total                                                                 0              0
                               ......................
      Total Military Construction                                                      6,557,447      6,551,843
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
          SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTIGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                       FY 2015       Agreement
      Service               Country and Location                  Project              Request      Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Army                   Mihail Kogalniceanu............  ERI: Fuel Storage Capacity             0         15,000
Army                   Mihail Kogalniceanu............  ERI: Hazardous Cargo Ramp.             0          5,000
Army                   Mihail Kogalniceanu............  ERI: Multi Modal                       0         17,000
                                                         Improvements.
      Military Construction, Army Total                                                        0         37,000
AF                     Graf Ignatievo.................  ERI: Improve Airfield                  0          3,200
                                                         Infrastructure.
AF                     Amari..........................  ERI: Improve Airfield                  0         24,780
                                                         Infrastructure.
AF                     Camp Darby.....................  ERI: Improve Weapons                   0         44,450
                                                         Storage Facility.
AF                     Lielvarde......................  ERI: Improve Airfield                  0         10,710
                                                         Infrastructure.
AF                     Siauliai.......................  ERI: Improve Airfield                  0         13,120
                                                         Infrastructure.
AF                     Lask...........................  ERI: Improve Support                   0         22,400
                                                         Infrastructure.
AF                     Camp Turzii....................  ERI: Improve Airfield                  0          2,900
                                                         Infrastructure.
AF                     Unspecified Worldwide Locations  ERI: Planning and Design..             0         11,500
      Military Construction, Air Force Total                                                   0        133,060
Def-Wide               Classified Location............  Classified Project........        46,000         46,000
Def-Wide               Unspecified Worldwide Locations  ERI: Unspecified Minor                 0          4,350
                                                         Construction.
      Military Construction, Defense-Wide Total                                           46,000         50,350
 
      Total, Military Construction, OCO Funding                                           46,000        220,410
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS (In Thousands
                               of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               FY 2015       Agreement
                  Program                      Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discretionary Summary By Appropriation
  Energy And Water Development, And
   Related Agencies
  Appropriation Summary:
    Energy Programs
      Nuclear Energy......................       104,000        104,000
 
    Advisory Board
      Advisory Board on Toxic Substances               0          2,000
       and Worker Health..................
 
    Atomic Energy Defense Activities
      National nuclear security
       administration:
        Weapons activities................     8,314,902      8,210,560
        Defense nuclear nonproliferation..     1,555,156      1,774,758
        Naval reactors....................     1,377,100      1,377,100
        Federal salaries and expenses.....       410,842        386,863
      Total, National nuclear security        11,658,000     11,749,281
       administration.....................
 
      Environmental and other defense
       activities:
        Defense environmental cleanup.....     5,327,538      4,884,538
        Other defense activities..........       753,000        754,000
      Total, Environmental & other defense     6,080,538      5,638,538
       activities.........................
    Total, Atomic Energy Defense              17,738,538     17,387,819
     Activities...........................
Total, Discretionary Funding..............    17,842,538     17,493,819
 
Nuclear Energy
  Idaho sitewide safeguards and security..       104,000        104,000
 
Advisory Board
  Advisory Board on Toxic Substances and               0          2,000
   Worker Health..........................
 
Weapons Activities
  Directed stockpile work
    Life extension programs
      B61 Life extension program..........       643,000        643,000
      W76 Life extension program..........       259,168        259,168
      W88 Alt 370.........................       165,400        165,400
      Cruise missile warhead life                  9,418         17,018
       extension program..................
    Total, Life extension programs........     1,076,986      1,084,586
 
    Stockpile systems
      B61 Stockpile systems...............       109,615        109,615
      W76 Stockpile systems...............        45,728         45,728
      W78 Stockpile systems...............        62,703         62,703
      W80 Stockpile systems...............        70,610         70,610
      B83 Stockpile systems...............        63,136         63,136
      W87 Stockpile systems...............        91,255         91,255
      W88 Stockpile systems...............        88,060         88,060
    Total, Stockpile systems..............       531,107        531,107
 
    Weapons dismantlement and disposition
      Operations and maintenance..........        30,008         40,008
 
    Stockpile services
      Production support..................       350,942        350,942
      Research and development support....        29,649         25,500
      R&D certification and safety........       201,479        160,000
      Management, technology, and                241,805        226,000
       production.........................
      Plutonium sustainment...............       144,575        144,575
      Tritium readiness...................       140,053        140,053
    Total, Stockpile services.............     1,108,503      1,047,070
  Total, Directed stockpile work..........     2,746,604      2,702,771
 
  Campaigns:
    Science campaign
      Advanced certification..............        58,747         58,747
      Primary assessment technologies.....       112,000        112,000
      Dynamic materials properties........       117,999        110,000
      Advanced radiography................        79,340         79,340
      Secondary assessment technologies...        88,344         88,344
    Total, Science campaign...............       456,430        448,431
 
    Engineering campaign
      Enhanced surety.....................        52,003         52,003
      Weapon systems engineering                  20,832         20,832
       assessment technology..............
      Nuclear survivability...............        25,371         25,371
      Enhanced surveillance...............        37,799         37,799
    Total, Engineering campaign...........       136,005        136,005
 
    Inertial confinement fusion ignition
     and high yield campaign
      Ignition............................        77,994         77,994
      Support of other stockpile programs.        23,598         23,598
      Diagnostics, cryogenics and                 61,297         61,297
       experimental support...............
      Pulsed power inertial confinement            5,024          5,024
       fusion.............................
      Joint program in high energy density         9,100          9,100
       laboratory plasmas.................
      Facility operations and target             335,882        335,882
       production.........................
      Undistributed.......................             0              0
    Total, Inertial confinement fusion and       512,895        512,895
     high yield campaign..................
 
    Advanced simulation and computing            610,108        610,108
     campaign.............................
 
    Nonnuclear Readiness Campaign.........       125,909         70,000
 
  Total, Campaigns........................     1,841,347      1,777,439
 
  Readiness in technical base and
   facilities (RTBF)
    Operations of facilities
    Kansas City Plant.....................       125,000        125,000
      Lawrence Livermore National                 71,000         71,000
       Laboratory.........................
      Los Alamos National Laboratory......       198,000        198,000
      Nevada National Security Site.......        89,000         89,000
      Pantex..............................        75,000         75,000
      Sandia National Laboratory..........       106,000        106,000
      Savannah River Site.................        81,000         81,000
      Y-12 National security complex......       151,000        151,000
    Total, Operations of facilities.......       896,000        896,000
 
    Program readiness.....................       136,700        101,000
    Material recycle and recovery.........       138,900        138,900
    Containers............................        26,000         26,000
    Storage...............................        40,800         40,800
    Maintenance and repair of facilities..       205,000        220,000
    Recapitalization......................       209,321        231,321
  Subtotal, Readiness in technical base          756,721        758,021
   and facilities.........................
 
    Construction:
      15-D-613 Emergency Operations                2,000          2,000
       Center, Y-12.......................
      15-D-612 Emergency Operations                2,000          2,000
       Center, LLNL.......................
      15-D-611 Emergency Operations                4,000          4,000
       Center, SNL........................
      15-D-301 HE Science & Engineering           11,800         11,800
       Facility, PX.......................
      15-D-302, TA-55 Reinvestment                16,062         16,062
       project, Phase 3, LANL.............
      12-D-301 TRU waste facilities, LANL.         6,938          6,938
      11-D-801 TA-55 Reinvestment project         10,000         10,000
       Phase 2, LANL......................
      07-D-220 Radioactive liquid waste           15,000         15,000
       treatment facility upgrade project,
       LANL...............................
      06-D-141 PED/Construction, Uranium         335,000        335,000
       Capabilities Replacement Project Y-
       12.................................
    Total, Construction...................       402,800        402,800
  Total, Readiness in technical base and       2,055,521      2,056,821
   facilities.............................
 
  Secure transportation asset
    Operations and equipment..............       132,851        132,851
    Program direction.....................       100,962        100,962
  Total, Secure transportation asset......       233,813        233,813
 
  Nuclear counterterrorism incident              173,440        182,440
   response...............................
 
  Counterterrorism and                            76,901         70,000
   Counterproliferation Programs..........
 
  Site stewardship
    Environmental projects and operations.        53,000         53,000
    Nuclear materials integration.........        16,218         16,218
    Minority serving institution                  13,231         13,231
     partnerships program.................
  Total, Site stewardship.................        82,449         82,449
 
  Defense nuclear security
    Operations and maintenance............       618,123        618,123
  Total, Defense nuclear security.........       618,123        618,123
 
  Information technology and cybersecurity       179,646        179,646
 
  Legacy contractor pensions..............       307,058        307,058
Total, Weapons Activities.................     8,314,902      8,210,560
 
 
Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
  Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
   Programs
    Global threat reduction initiative....       333,488        383,488
 
    Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation R&D
      Operations and maintenance
        Nonproliferation and verification.       360,808        393,401
      Total, Operations and Maintenance...       360,808        393,401
 
    Nonproliferation and international           141,359        144,246
     security.............................
 
    International material protection and        305,467        294,589
     cooperation..........................
 
    Fissile materials disposition
      U.S. surplus fissile materials
       disposition
        Operations and maintenance
          U.S. plutonium disposition......        85,000         85,000
          U.S. uranium disposition........        25,000         25,000
        Total, Operations and maintenance.       110,000        110,000
        Construction:
          99-D-143 Mixed oxide fuel              196,000        341,000
           fabrication facility, Savannah
           River, SC......................
          99-D-141-02 Waste Solidification         5,125          5,125
           Building, Savannah River, SC...
        Total, Construction...............       201,125        346,125
      Total, U.S. surplus fissile                311,125        456,125
       materials disposition..............
    Total, Fissile materials disposition..       311,125        456,125
  Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation      1,452,247      1,671,849
   Programs...............................
 
  Legacy contractor pensions..............       102,909        102,909
  Subtotal, Defense Nuclear                    1,555,156      1,774,758
   Nonproliferation ......................
Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation...     1,555,156      1,774,758
 
 
Naval Reactors
  Naval reactors operations and                  412,380        412,380
   infrastructure.........................
  Naval reactors development..............       425,700        425,700
  Ohio replacement reactor systems               156,100        156,100
   development............................
  S8G Prototype refueling.................       126,400        126,400
  Program direction.......................        46,600         46,600
  Construction:
    15-D-904 NRF Overpack Storage                    400            400
     Expansion 3..........................
    15-D-903 KL Fire System Upgrade.......           600            600
    15-D-902 KS Engineroom team trainer            1,500          1,500
     facility.............................
    15-D-901 KS Central office building           24,000         24,000
     and prototype staff facility.........
    14-D-901 Spent fuel handling                 141,100        141,100
     recapitalization project, NRF........
    13-D-905 Remote-handled low-level             14,420         14,420
     waste facility, INL..................
    13-D-904 KS Radiological work and             20,100         20,100
     storage building, KSO................
    10-D-903, Security upgrades, KAPL.....         7,400          7,400
    08-D-190 Expended Core Facility M-290
     receiving/discharge station,
         Naval Reactor Facility, ID.......           400            400
  Total, Construction.....................       209,920        209,920
Total, Naval Reactors.....................     1,377,100      1,377,100
 
 
Federal Salaries And Expenses
  Program direction.......................       410,842        386,863
Total, Office Of The Administrator........       410,842        386,863
 
 
Defense Environmental Cleanup
  Closure sites:
    Closure sites administration..........         4,889          4,889
 
  Hanford site:
      River corridor and other cleanup           332,788        352,788
       operations.........................
      Central plateau remediation.........       474,292        474,292
    Construction:
      15-D-401 Containerized sludge (Rl-          26,290         26,290
       0012)..............................
    Total, Central plateau remediation....       833,370        853,370
    Richland community and regulatory             14,701         14,701
     support..............................
  Total, Hanford site.....................       848,071        868,071
 
  Idaho National Laboratory:
    Idaho cleanup and waste disposition...       364,293        364,293
    Idaho community and regulatory support         2,910          2,910
  Total, Idaho National Laboratory........       367,203        367,203
 
  NNSA sites
    Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory         1,366          1,366
    Nevada................................        64,851         64,851
    Sandia National Laboratories..........         2,801          2,801
    Los Alamos National Laboratory........       196,017        196,017
    Construction:
      15-D-406 Hexavalent chromium D & D          28,600         28,600
       (Vl-Lanl-0030).....................
  Total, NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites..       293,635        293,635
 
  Oak Ridge Reservation:
    OR Nuclear facility D & D
      OR Nuclear facility D & D...........        73,155         73,155
      Construction:
        14-D-403 Outfall 200 Mercury               9,400          9,400
         Treatment Facility...............
    Total, OR Nuclear facility D & D......        82,555         82,555
 
    U233 Disposition Program..............        41,626         41,626
 
    OR cleanup and disposition:
      OR cleanup and disposition..........        71,137         71,137
      Construction:
        15-D-405_Sludge Buildout..........         4,200          4,200
    Total, OR cleanup and disposition.....        75,337         75,337
 
  OR reservation community and regulatory          4,365          4,365
   support................................
  Solid waste stabilization and
   disposition,
         Oak Ridge technology development.         3,000          3,000
  Total, Oak Ridge Reservation............       206,883        206,883
 
  Office of River Protection:
    Waste treatment and immobilization
     plant
      01-D-416 A-D/ORP-0060 / Major              575,000        575,000
       construction.......................
      01-D-16E Pretreatment facility......       115,000        115,000
    Total, Waste treatment and                   690,000        690,000
     immobilization plant.................
 
    Tank farm activities
      Rad liquid tank waste stabilization        522,000        522,000
       and disposition....................
      Construction:
        15-D-409 Low Activity Waste               23,000         23,000
         Pretreatment System, Hanford.....
    Total, Tank farm activities...........       545,000        545,000
  Total, Office of River protection.......     1,235,000      1,235,000
 
  Savannah River sites:
    Savannah River risk management               416,276        416,276
     operations...........................
    SR community and regulatory support...        11,013         11,013
 
    Radioactive liquid tank waste:
      Radioactive liquid tank waste              553,175        553,175
       stabilization and disposition......
      Construction:
        15-D-402_Saltstone Disposal Unit          34,642         34,642
         #6...............................
        05-D-405 Salt waste processing           135,000        135,000
         facility, Savannah River.........
      Total, Construction.................       169,642        169,642
    Total, Radioactive liquid tank waste..       722,817        722,817
  Total, Savannah River site..............     1,150,106      1,150,106
 
  Waste isolation pilot plant.............       216,020        216,020
 
  Program direction.......................       280,784        280,784
  Program support.........................        14,979         14,979
 
  Safeguards and Security:
    Oak Ridge Reservation.................        16,382         16,382
    Paducah...............................         7,297          7,297
    Portsmouth............................         8,492          8,492
    Richland/Hanford Site.................        63,668         63,668
    Savannah River Site...................       132,196        132,196
    Waste Isolation Pilot Project.........         4,455          4,455
    West Valley...........................         1,471          1,471
  Technology development..................        13,007         13,007
  Use of prior-year balances..............             0              0
Subtotal, Defense environmental cleanup...     4,864,538      4,884,538
 
  Uranium enrichment D&D fund contribution       463,000              0
 
Total, Defense Environmental Cleanup......     5,327,538      4,884,538
 
 
Other Defense Activities
  Specialized security activities.........       202,152        203,152
 
  Environment, health, safety and security
    Environment, health, safety and              118,763        118,763
     security.............................
    Program direction.....................        62,235         62,235
  Total, Environment, Health, safety and         180,998        180,998
   security...............................
 
  Independent enterprise assessments
    Independent enterprise assessments....        24,068         24,068
    Program direction.....................        49,466         49,466
  Total, Independent enterprise                   73,534         73,534
   assessments............................
 
  Office of Legacy Management
    Legacy management.....................       158,639        158,639
    Program direction.....................        13,341         13,341
  Total, Office of Legacy Management......       171,980        171,980
 
  Defense-related activities
  Defense related administrative support
    Chief financial officer...............        46,877         46,877
    Chief information officer.............        71,959         71,959
  Total, Defense related administrative          118,836        118,836
   support................................
 
  Office of hearings and appeals..........         5,500          5,500
Subtotal, Other defense activities........       753,000        754,000
Total, Other Defense Activities...........       753,000        754,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------



                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
