
[Congressional Bills 113th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Printing Office]
[H.R. 2792 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                 Union Calendar No. 126
113th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2792

                          [Report No. 113-173]

 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2014, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 23, 2013

   Mr. Alexander, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported the 
following bill; which was committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2014, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2014, and for other purposes, namely:
    

                                TITLE I

                           LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$1,171,569,576, as follows:

                        House Leadership Offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $22,058,308, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $6,579,621, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$2,158,463, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $7,044,031, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $1,867,952, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, 
$1,445,187, including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority 
Whip; Republican Conference, $1,490,521; Democratic Caucus, $1,472,533: 
 Provided, That such amount for salaries and expenses shall remain 
available from January 3, 2014 until January 2, 2015.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

   Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                             Official Mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $543,918,813.

                          Committee Employees

                Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $119,376,151:  Provided, That 
such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses until 
December 31, 2014.

                      Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$25,271,004, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed:  Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
salaries and expenses until December 31, 2014.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $173,721,185, including: for salaries and expenses 
of the Office of the Clerk, including the positions of the Chaplain and 
the Historian, including not more than $25,000, of which not more than 
$20,000 is for the Family Room and not more than $2,000 is for the 
Office of the Chaplain, for official representation and reception 
expenses, $24,009,473; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Sergeant at Arms, including the position of Superintendent of Garages 
and the Office of Emergency Management, and including not more than 
$3,000 for official representation and reception expenses, $11,926,729, 
of which $4,212,500 shall remain available until expended; for salaries 
and expenses of the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer 
including not more than $3,000 for official representation and 
reception expenses, $116,002,451, of which $9,100,000 shall remain 
available until expended; for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
the Inspector General, $4,741,809; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of General Counsel, $1,340,987; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian, $2,000 
for preparing the Digest of Rules, and not more than $1,000 for 
official representation and reception expenses, $1,952,249; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the 
House, $3,087,587; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Legislative Counsel of the House, $9,366,845; for salaries and expenses 
of the Office of Interparliamentary Affairs, $814,069; and for other 
authorized employees, $478,986.

                        Allowances and Expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $287,224,115, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $3,502,789; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $190,486; 
Government contributions for health, retirement, Social Security, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $260,995,068; Business Continuity 
and Disaster Recovery, $16,217,008, of which $5,000,000 shall remain 
available until expended; transition activities for new Members and 
staff $1,631,487 to remain available until expended; Wounded Warrior 
Program $2,500,000, to remain available until expended; Office of 
Congressional Ethics, $1,467,030; and miscellaneous items including 
purchase, exchange, maintenance, repair and operation of House motor 
vehicles, interparliamentary receptions, and gratuities to heirs of 
deceased employees of the House, $720,247.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. (a) Requiring Amounts Remaining in Members' 
Representational Allowances To Be Used for Deficit Reduction or To 
Reduce the Federal Debt.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational 
Allowances'' shall be available only for fiscal year 2014. Any amount 
remaining after all payments are made under such allowances for fiscal 
year 2014 shall be deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit 
reduction (or, if there is no Federal budget deficit after all such 
payments have been made, for reducing the Federal debt, in such manner 
as the Secretary of the Treasury considers appropriate).
    (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of the 
House of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe regulations 
to carry out this section.
    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``Member of the 
House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, or a Delegate or 
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.
    Sec. 102. (a) Section 109(a) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1998 (2 U.S.C. 95d(a)) is amended by striking the 
period at the end and inserting the following: ``, and for reimbursing 
the Secretary of Labor for any amounts paid with respect to 
unemployment compensation payments for former employees of the 
House.''.
    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2014 and each succeeding fiscal year.
    Sec. 103. (a) Section 101(c)(2) of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 1993 (2 U.S.C. 95b(c)(2)) is amended by striking 
``and `Allowances and Expenses''' and inserting the following: 
```Allowances and Expenses', the heading for any joint committee under 
the heading `Joint Items' (to the extent that amounts appropriated for 
the joint committee are disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer 
of the House of Representatives), and `Office of the Attending 
Physician'''.
    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2014 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                              JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$3,983,158, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                      Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$9,480,731, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House of Representatives.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                   Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including: (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
Physician; (2) an allowance of $1,300 per month to the Senior Medical 
Officer; (3) an allowance of $725 per month each to three medical 
officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending Physician; (4) an 
allowance of $725 per month to 2 assistants and $580 per month each not 
to exceed 11 assistants on the basis heretofore provided for such 
assistants; and (5) $2,625,000 for reimbursement to the Department of 
the Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to the 
Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced and credited 
to the applicable appropriation or appropriations from which such 
salaries, allowances, and other expenses are payable and shall be 
available for all the purposes thereof, $3,222,160, to be disbursed by 
the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives.

             Office of Congressional Accessibility Services

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Congressional 
Accessibility Services, $1,291,707, to be disbursed by the Secretary of 
the Senate.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                                Salaries

    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including 
overtime, hazardous duty pay, and Government contributions for health, 
retirement, social security, professional liability insurance, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $274,511,000.

                            general expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including motor 
vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment and 
installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical 
services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal and 
professional services, the employee assistance program, the awards 
program, postage, communication services, travel advances, relocation 
of instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on the 
certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $55,190,000, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee:  
Provided, That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of 
basic training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center for fiscal year 2014 shall be paid by the Secretary of 
Homeland Security from funds available to the Department of Homeland 
Security.

                       Administrative Provisions

                     (including transfer of funds)

  authority to transfer amounts between salaries and general expenses

    Sec. 1001. During fiscal year 2014 and any succeeding fiscal year, 
the Capitol Police may transfer amounts appropriated for the fiscal 
year between the category for salaries and the category for general 
expenses, upon the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the 
House of Representatives and Senate.

           funds available for workers compensation payments

    Sec. 1002. (a) In General.--Available balances of expired United 
States Capitol Police appropriations shall be available to the Capitol 
Police to make the deposit to the credit of the Employees' Compensation 
Fund required by section 8147(b) of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1018 of the Legislative Branch 
Appropriations Act, 2003 (2 U.S.C. 1907) is amended by striking 
subsection (f).
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
appropriations for fiscal year 2014 and each fiscal year thereafter.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $3,617,348, of which $780,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2015:  Provided, That not more than $500 
may be expended on the certification of the Executive Director of the 
Office of Compliance in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 1101. (a) The second sentence of section 415(a) of the 
Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1415(a)) is amended 
to read as follows: ``There are appropriated for such account such sums 
as may be necessary to pay such awards and settlements.''.
    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2014 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                   semiannual report of disbursements

    Sec. 1102.  (a) Reports Required.--Not later than 60 days after the 
last day of each semiannual period of a fiscal year, the Executive 
Director of the Office of Compliance shall submit to the Committee on 
House Administration of the House of Representatives, the Committee on 
Rules and Administration of the Senate, and the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate, with respect 
to that period, a detailed, itemized report of the disbursements for 
the operations of the Office of Compliance.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) the identification of any employee or contractor who 
        receives a payment from the Office of Compliance;
            (2) the quantity and price of any item furnished to the 
        Office of Compliance;
            (3) a description of any service rendered to the Office of 
        Compliance, together with a statement of the time required for 
        the service, and the name, title, and amount paid to each 
        person who renders the service;
            (4) a statement of all amounts appropriated to, or received 
        or expended by, the Office of Compliance and any unexpended 
        balances of such amounts; and
            (5) such additional information as may be required by 
        regulation of the Committee on House Administration of the 
        House of Representatives, the Committee on Rules and 
        Administration of the Senate, or the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives or Senate.
    (c) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--This section shall apply with respect to 
        the semiannual periods of October 1 through March 31 and April 
        1 through September 30 of each fiscal year, beginning with 
        fiscal year 2013.
            (2) Special rule for reports for fiscal year 2013.--The 
        Executive Director of the Office of Compliance shall submit the 
        reports required for the two semiannual periods of fiscal year 
        2013 not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.

                      CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $6,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $41,496,677.

                        Administrative Provision

                acceptance of voluntary student services

    Sec. 1201. (a) Section 3111(e) of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``(e)'' and inserting ``(e)(1)''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) In this section, the term `agency' includes the Congressional 
Budget Office, except that in the case of the Congressional Budget 
Office--
            ``(A) any student who provides voluntary service in 
        accordance with this section shall be considered an employee of 
        the Congressional Budget Office for purposes of section 203 of 
        the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (relating to the level of 
        confidentiality of budget data); and
            ``(B) the authority granted to the Office of Personnel 
        Management under this section shall be exercised by the 
        Director of the Congressional Budget Office.''.
    (b) The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
to fiscal year 2014 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                         General Administration

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other personal 
services, at rates of pay provided by law; for surveys and studies in 
connection with activities under the care of the Architect of the 
Capitol; for all necessary expenses for the general and administrative 
support of the operations under the Architect of the Capitol including 
the Botanic Garden; electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and 
House office buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of 
the Architect of the Capitol; including furnishings and office 
equipment; including not more than $5,000 for official reception and 
representation expenses, to be expended as the Architect of the Capitol 
may approve; for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and operation of a 
passenger motor vehicle, $85,286,000.

                            Capitol Building

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol, $60,421,000, of which $20,702,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018, and of which $15,940,000 shall 
remain available until expended solely for expenses related to 
rehabilitation of the U.S. Capitol Dome.

                            Capitol Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $13,037,000, of which $3,700,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

                         House Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $71,622,000, of which $9,100,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2018.
    In addition, for a payment to the House Historic Buildings 
Revitalization Trust Fund, $70,000,000, shall remain available until 
expended.

                          Capitol Power Plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $109,334,000, of which $37,200,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018:  Provided, That not more than 
$9,000,000 of the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this 
appropriation as herein provided shall be available for obligation 
during fiscal year 2014.

                     Library Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$47,861,000, of which $23,448,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2018.

            Capitol Police Buildings, Grounds, and Security

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of buildings, grounds and security enhancements of the United States 
Capitol Police, wherever located, the Alternate Computer Facility, and 
AOC security operations, $18,898,000, of which $1,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2018.

                             Botanic Garden

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $11,372,000:  Provided, That of the 
amount made available under this heading, the Architect of the Capitol 
may obligate and expend such sums as may be necessary for the 
maintenance, care and operation of the National Garden established 
under section 307E of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 
(2 U.S.C. 2146), upon vouchers approved by the Architect of the Capitol 
or a duly authorized designee.

                         Capitol Visitor Center

    For all necessary expenses for the operation of the Capitol Visitor 
Center, $20,163,000.

                       Administrative Provisions

                   semiannual report of disbursements

    Sec. 1301.  (a) Reports Required.--Not later than 60 days after the 
last day of each semiannual period, the Architect of the Capitol shall 
submit to Congress, with respect to that period, a detailed, itemized 
report of the disbursements for the operations of the Office of the 
Architect of the Capitol.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) the name of each person who receives a payment from the 
        Office of the Architect of the Capitol;
            (2) the quantity and price of any item furnished to the 
        Office of the Architect of the Capitol;
            (3) a description of any service rendered to the Office of 
        the Architect of the Capitol, together with a statement of the 
        time required for the service, and the name, title, and amount 
        paid to each person who renders the service;
            (4) a statement of all amounts appropriated to, or received 
        or expended by, the Office of the Architect of the Capitol and 
        any unexpended balances of such amounts;
            (5) the information submitted to the Comptroller General 
        under section 3523(b) of title 31, United States Code; and
            (6) such additional information as may be required by 
        regulation of the Committee on House Administration of the 
        House of Representatives or the Committee on Rules and 
        Administration of the Senate.
    (c) Printing.--Each report under this section shall be printed as a 
House document.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to the 
semiannual periods of January 1 through June 30 and July 1 through 
December 31 of each year, beginning with the semiannual period in which 
this section is enacted.

                            use of building

    Sec. 1302.  (a) Use of Building.--In exercising its authority under 
the item ``Architect of the Capitol, Capitol Buildings and Grounds, 
House Office Buildings'' in the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 
1985 (Public Law 98-367; 2 U.S.C. 2001 note), to use the building 
referred to in such item for the purposes of providing office and 
accommodations for the House of Representatives, the House Office 
Building Commission is authorized to enter into such agreements 
regarding the use of the building by the House or by other persons as 
the Commission considers appropriate.
    (b) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
fiscal year 2014 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Library's 
catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and 
maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the Library; activities 
under the Civil Rights History Project Act of 2009; preparation and 
distribution of catalog records and other publications of the Library; 
hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses of the 
Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to the 
income of any trust fund held by the Board, $398,642,813, of which not 
more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from collections credited to this 
appropriation during fiscal year 2014, and shall remain available until 
expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 480; 2 
U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2014 and shall remain available until 
expended for the development and maintenance of an international legal 
information database and activities related thereto:  Provided, That 
the Library of Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived 
from collections under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
 Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than $6,350,000: 
 Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, not more than 
$12,000 may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress, in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses for the Overseas Field Offices:  Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $7,068,000 shall remain available until 
expended for the digital collections and educational curricula program.

                            Copyright Office

                         salaries and expenses

    For all necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $50,172,412, of 
which not more than $28,029,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2014 under section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code:  
Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any 
funds derived from collections under such section, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
 Provided further, That not more than $5,590,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2014 under sections 111(d)(2), 
119(b)(2), 803(e), 1005, and 1316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That the total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the 
amount by which collections are less than $33,619,000:  Provided 
further, That not more than $100,000 of the amount appropriated is 
available for the maintenance of an ``International Copyright 
Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress for the 
purpose of training nationals of developing countries in intellectual 
property laws and policies:  Provided further, That not more than 
$4,250 may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress, in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses for activities of the International Copyright Institute and 
for copyright delegations, visitors, and seminars:  Provided further, 
That notwithstanding any provision of chapter 8 of title 17, United 
States Code, any amounts made available under this heading which are 
attributable to royalty fees and payments received by the Copyright 
Office pursuant to sections 111, 119, and chapter 10 of such title may 
be used for the costs incurred in the administration of the Copyright 
Royalty Judges program, with the exception of the costs of salaries and 
benefits for the Copyright Royalty Judges and staff under section 
802(e).

                     Congressional Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to 
revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of 
America, $101,407,996:  Provided, That no part of such amount may be 
used to pay any salary or expense in connection with any publication, 
or preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public 
General Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless such 
publication has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on 
House Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee 
on Rules and Administration of the Senate.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $48,023,446:  Provided, 
That of the total amount appropriated, $650,000 shall be available to 
contract to provide newspapers to blind and physically handicapped 
residents at no cost to the individual.

                       Administrative Provisions

               reimbursable and revolving fund activities

    Sec. 1401. (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2014, the obligational 
authority of the Library of Congress for the activities described in 
subsection (b) may not exceed $178,958,000.
    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection (a) are 
reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources 
other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the 
legislative branch.

   authority to transfer amounts between categories of appropriations

    Sec. 1402. (a) In General.--During fiscal year 2014 and any 
succeeding fiscal year, the Librarian of Congress may transfer amounts 
appropriated for the fiscal year between the categories of 
appropriations provided under law for the Library of Congress for the 
fiscal year, upon the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and Senate.
    (b) Limitation.--Not more than 10 percent of the total amount of 
funds appropriated to the account under any category of appropriations 
for the Library of Congress for a fiscal year may be transferred from 
that account by all transfers made under subsection (a).

                       GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE

                   Congressional Printing and Binding

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For authorized printing and binding for the Congress and the 
distribution of Congressional information in any format; expenses 
necessary for preparing the semimonthly and session index to the 
Congressional Record, as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, 
United States Code); printing and binding of Government publications 
authorized by law to be distributed to Members of Congress; and 
printing, binding, and distribution of Government publications 
authorized by law to be distributed without charge to the recipient, 
$79,736,000:  Provided, That this appropriation shall not be available 
for paper copies of the permanent edition of the Congressional Record 
for individual Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates 
authorized under section 906 of title 44, United States Code:  Provided 
further, That this appropriation shall be available for the payment of 
obligations incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for 
preceding fiscal years:  Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-
year limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none 
of the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or any other 
Act for printing and binding and related services provided to Congress 
under chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to 
print a document, report, or publication after the 27-month period 
beginning on the date that such document, report, or publication is 
authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such 
printing in accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States 
Code:  Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in 
this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years may be transferred to the Government Printing Office revolving 
fund for carrying out the purposes of this heading, subject to the 
approval of the Committees on Appropriations of the House of 
Representatives and Senate:  Provided further, That notwithstanding 
sections 901, 902, and 906 of title 44, United States Code, this 
appropriation may be used to prepare indexes to the Congressional 
Record on only a monthly and session basis.

                 Office of Superintendent of Documents

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the Office of Superintendent of Documents necessary 
to provide for the cataloging and indexing of Government publications 
and their distribution to the public, Members of Congress, other 
Government agencies, and designated depository and international 
exchange libraries as authorized by law, $31,437,000:  Provided, That 
amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from current year appropriations 
are authorized for producing and disseminating Congressional serial 
sets and other related publications for fiscal years 2012 and 2013 to 
depository and other designated libraries:  Provided further, That any 
unobligated or unexpended balances in this account or accounts for 
similar purposes for preceding fiscal years may be transferred to the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund for carrying out the purposes 
of this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.

               Government Printing Office Revolving Fund

    For payment to the Government Printing Office Revolving Fund, 
$3,966,847, to remain available until expended, for information 
technology development and facilities repair:  Provided, That the 
Government Printing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accordance 
with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Printing Office revolving fund:  Provided further, That not 
more than $7,500 may be expended on the certification of the Public 
Printer in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses:  Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available 
for the hire or purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor vehicles:  
Provided further, That expenditures in connection with travel expenses 
of the advisory councils to the Public Printer shall be deemed 
necessary to carry out the provisions of title 44, United States Code:  
Provided further, That the revolving fund shall be available for 
temporary or intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, 
United States Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the 
daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the 
Executive Schedule under section 5316 of such title:  Provided further, 
That activities financed through the revolving fund may provide 
information in any format:  Provided further, That the revolving fund 
and the funds provided under the headings ``Office of Superintendent of 
Documents'' and ``Salaries and Expenses'' may not be used for 
contracted security services at GPO's passport facility in the District 
of Columbia.

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability Office, 
including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the certification of 
the Comptroller General of the United States in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses; temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; 
advance payments in foreign countries in accordance with section 3324 
of title 31, United States Code; benefits comparable to those payable 
under sections 901(5), (6), and (8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and under regulations prescribed by 
the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of living quarters 
in foreign countries, $486,226,129:  Provided, That, in addition, 
$32,368,000 of payments received under sections 782, 3521, and 9105 of 
title 31, United States Code, shall be available without fiscal year 
limitation:  Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum 
or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of either Forum's costs as determined by 
the respective Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-
Federal participants:  Provided further, That payments hereunder to the 
Forum may be credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which 
costs involved are initially financed.

                        Administrative Provision

        use of electronic filing for procurement protest system

    Sec. 1501. Section 3555(c) of title 31, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Electronic Filing and Document Dissemination System.--
            ``(1) Establishment and operation of system.--The 
        Comptroller General shall establish and operate an electronic 
        filing and document dissemination system under which, in 
        accordance with procedures prescribed by the Comptroller 
        General--
                    ``(A) a person filing a protest under this 
                subchapter may file the protest through electronic 
                means; and
                    ``(B) all documents and information required with 
                respect to the protest may be disseminated and made 
                available to the parties to the protest through 
                electronic means.
            ``(2) Imposition of fees.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Comptroller General may 
                require each person who files a protest under this 
                subchapter to pay a fee to support the establishment 
                and operation of the electronic system under this 
                subsection, without regard to whether or not the person 
                uses the system with respect to the protest.
                    ``(B) Amount.--The Comptroller General shall 
                establish (and from time to time shall update) a 
                schedule setting forth the amount of the fee to be paid 
                under subparagraph (A).
            ``(3) Treatment of amounts collected.--
                    ``(A) Establishment of account.--The Comptroller 
                General shall maintain a separate account among the 
                accounts of the Government Accountability Office for 
                the electronic system under this subsection, and shall 
                deposit all amounts received as fees under paragraph 
                (2) into the account.
                    ``(B) Use of amounts.--Amounts in the account 
                maintained under this paragraph shall be available to 
                the Comptroller General, without fiscal year 
                limitation, solely to establish and operate the 
                electronic system under this subsection.''.

                OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND

    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust Fund for 
financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center under section 
313 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151), 
$1,000,000.

                                TITLE II

                           GENERAL PROVISIONS

                maintenance and care of private vehicles

    Sec. 201.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.

                         fiscal year limitation

    Sec. 202.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2014 unless 
expressly so provided in this Act.

                 rates of compensation and designation

    Sec. 203.  Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 
32 et seq.) is appropriated for or the rate of compensation or 
designation of any office or position appropriated for is different 
from that specifically established by such Act, the rate of 
compensation and the designation in this Act shall be the permanent law 
with respect thereto:  Provided, That the provisions in this Act for 
the various items of official expenses of Members, officers, and 
committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, and clerk hire 
for Senators and Members of the House of Representatives shall be the 
permanent law with respect thereto.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 204.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, under section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for 
public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, 
or under existing Executive order issued under existing law.

                             costs of lbfmc

    Sec. 205.  Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs 
as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be 
shared among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) may not 
exceed $2,000.

                         landscape maintenance

    Sec. 206.  The Architect of the Capitol, in consultation with the 
District of Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve the 
landscape features, excluding streets, in the irregular shaped grassy 
areas bounded by Washington Avenue, SW on the northeast, Second Street, 
SW, on the west, Square 582 on the south, and the beginning of the I-
395 tunnel on the southeast.

                        limitation on transfers

    Sec. 207.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation Act.

                      guided tours of the capitol

    Sec. 208. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds made available to the Architect of the Capitol in this Act may be 
used to eliminate or restrict guided tours of the United States Capitol 
which are led by employees and interns of offices of Members of 
Congress and other offices of the House of Representatives and Senate.
    (b) At the direction of the Capitol Police Board, or at the 
direction of the Architect of the Capitol with the approval of the 
Capitol Police Board, guided tours of the United States Capitol which 
are led by employees and interns described in subsection (a) may be 
suspended temporarily or otherwise subject to restriction for security 
or related reasons to the same extent as guided tours of the United 
States Capitol which are led by the Architect of the Capitol.

                   delivery of bills and resolutions

    Sec. 209.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to deliver a printed copy of a bill, joint resolution, or resolution to 
the office of a Member of the House of Representatives (including a 
Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress) unless the Member 
requests a copy.

                    delivery of congressional record

    Sec. 210.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to deliver a printed copy of any version of the Congressional Record to 
the office of a Member of the House of Representatives (including a 
Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress).

            limitation on amount available to lease vehicles

    Sec. 211.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives to 
make any payments from any Members' Representational Allowance for the 
leasing of a vehicle, excluding mobile district offices, in an 
aggregate amount that exceeds $1,000 for the vehicle in any month.

           limitation on printed copies of u.s. code to house

    Sec. 212.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to provide an aggregate number of more than 50 printed copies of any 
edition of the United States Code to all offices of the House of 
Representatives.

            authorizing commercial activity on union square

    Sec. 213. (a) Treatment as Part of Capitol Grounds.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of chapter 51 of title 40, 
        United States Code, the United States Capitol Grounds shall 
        include Union Square.
            (2) Union square defined.--In this section, the term 
        ``Union Square'' means the area for which jurisdiction and 
        control was transferred to the Architect of the Capitol under 
        section 1202 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2012 
        (Public Law 112-74).
    (b) Continuation of Types of Activity Previously Authorized.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any limitations on the use 
        of the United States Capitol Grounds (including section 5104(c) 
        of title 40, United States Code), the Chief of the United 
        States Capitol Police (hereafter referred to as the 
        ``Chief'')--
                    (A) may issue a permit authorizing a person to 
                engage in commercial activity in Union Square if the 
                activity is similar to the types of commercial activity 
                permitted in Union Square prior to the transfer of 
                jurisdiction and control of Union Square to the 
                Architect of the Capitol under section 1202 of the 
                Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 
                112-74); and
                    (B) under the terms and conditions of such a 
                permit, may require the person to whom the permit is 
                issued to pay a fee to cover any costs incurred by the 
                Architect of the Capitol as a result of the issuance of 
                the permit, if the fees are similar to the fees 
                collected by the Director of the National Park Service 
                for commercial activity permitted in Union Square prior 
                to such transfer of jurisdiction and control.
            (2) Regulations.--The Chief shall carry out this section in 
        accordance with such regulations as the Capitol Police Board 
        may promulgate pursuant to the Board's authority under section 
        14 of the Act of July 31, 1946 (2 U.S.C. 1969), except that the 
        Board shall promulgate the regulations in consultation with the 
        Committee on House Administration of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration 
        of the Senate.
    (c) Capitol Trust Account.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of 
        the United States an account for the Architect of the Capitol 
        to be known as the ``Capitol Trust Account'', consisting of all 
        fees collected by the Chief under subsection (b)(2).
            (2) Transfer.--Immediately upon receiving any fees 
        collected under subsection (b)(2), the Chief shall transfer the 
        fees to the Capitol Trust Account.
            (3) Use of funds.--Amounts in the Capitol Trust Account 
        shall be available without fiscal year limitation for such 
        maintenance, improvements, and projects with respect to Union 
        Square as the Architect of the Capitol considers appropriate, 
        subject to the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of 
        the House of Representatives and Senate.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date of 
the enactment of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2012 
(Public Law 112-74).
    Sec. 214.  It is the sense of the Congress that Congress should not 
pass any legislation that authorizes spending cuts that would increase 
poverty in the United States.

                       spending reduction account

    Sec. 215.  The amount by which the applicable allocation of new 
budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974, excluding Senate items, exceeds the amount of proposed new 
budget authority is $0.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2014''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 126

113th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 2792

                          [Report No. 113-173]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2014, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             July 23, 2013

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
